Journal of Kim Il Sung University (Natural Science) Vol. 3 No. 2 Juche103(2014) Training Scenario Editing based on New Knowledge Structure to Represent Spatio-Temporal Relation between the Objects Pak Hyon Chol, Ri Ryong Hyon Abstract We propose the method to model training process performed optionally accompanying the interaction with users and make the training scenario, and propose the estimation method. Key words training, structural pattern, video database, string  Introduction  The process of training-simulation that requires repetition can be considered not only as Animation in the aspect of computer graphics but also as the flow process of work in the aspect of work flow accompanied an interaction between a man and a machine [1]. Several schemes such as String, Graph and Tree have been proposed for representing the structural pattern and its primitives [1, 2]. Graph [2 － 4] is widely used to represent the technological procedure(or precedence relations) between the tasks by having an edge for each task and its working time. In this aspect, Graph can represent the flow process of simulation game, but can not represent the primitive action in detail. String [5 － 8] is to represent the spatial relations between the objects in a symbolic image, many iconic indexing approaches have been proposed, such as 2D - String, 2D G- String, 2D C-String, 2D C+String, unique-1D-based matrix, GPN matrix, virtual image, BP matrix and 2D Z-String. To represent the spatial and temporal relations between the objects in a symbolic video, many iconic indexing approaches, extended from the notion of 2D String to represent the spatial and temporal relations between objects in a video, have been proposed, such as 2D B- String, 2D C-Tree, 9DLT Strings, 3D-list, and 3D C-String. A simulation game is different from a symbolic video string in the aspect that a simulation game is a primitive action sequence proceeding selectively accompanied with an interaction between a man and a computer. 1. Representing the Process of Simulation Game Graph can not represent a primitive action in detail, whereas string can represent a primitive action, so we define the process of simulation game as follows. － 26 － Training Scenario Editing based on New Knowledge Structure to Represent Spatio-Temporal… Definition 1 Let F and G be a set of ranks of vertices and a set of labels of vertices respectively. An attributed 3D-Sim-String is defined by a quadruple: G = (N, E, g, f), where N is a set of vertices, E is a set of edges, g is a mapping from N to G, and f is a mapping from N to F. As you can see, each vertex as primitive action has both a vertex type and a vertex label.  2. Representing a Primitive Action In the training-required simulation game, the implementation process of primitive action is a process performing a primitive action i.e. changing the layouts and attributes of the objects based on the observation and recognition. We define a primitive action as follow on the base of a primitive action and string theory. Definition 2 Let vkA be a k th object at the bottom of the v th primitive action. The attributed is defined as the sequence of attributed objects with vkA and String Sim − layout relation R. It is notated as follows. = vk A where km : a number of objects with vkA and hierarchical relation, vk with vkA and hierarchical relation, and RARA k ,{( =<=∈ L1+ }) R , k vk A m k vk k vk R 1 , R kmL 1 − (1) jA : an attributed object : alocation relation A rank of string is defined as “(a number of operators ‘<’ before the symbol + 1) + (sum of attribute indices of all symbols)” v v , , , 2 v 1 } vN A A A A L with index v. (N: a number of objects at the bottom) Definition 3 The primitive action is defined as a set of attributed Sim-String { =  3. Definition of Similarity for Attributed 3D-Sim-String We define the similarity of attributed 3D-Sim-String by edit distance. For this, we introduce CS (Can Substitute) to shows the possibility whether a type of vertex can be substituted into another. When the labels of two vertices are different, that is, CS can not be defined, the similarity of vertex can not be defined. Let G = 1 ( gEN 1 1 1 , , , f 1 ) and G = 2 ( EN , 2 2 , g , 2 f 2 ) be the graphs and let NM : →  N 2 1 , 2 } ∈ (| M n 1 Mdom ( We call be a homomorphism mapping the vertices of 1G to the ones of 2G . n n ) For If a vertex {) n = 1 M and a corresponding domain of M respectively. Mcod ( Nn 1 Nn ∈ can not be substituted, it is removed from 1G (or inserted into 2G ). Similarly, if a vertex 2n can not be substituted, it is removed from 2G (or inserted into 1G ) As it is similar to the matching of primitive action, we define the similarity of primitive , then the vertex n can be substituted. as a domain of norMdom ) 1 N U Mcod ( and {) n = , if ∈∀ n 1 M (| ∈ ∈ ∈ n } ) ( ) 2 2 1 2 , action as follows. － 27 － Journal of Kim Il Sung University (Natural Science) No. 2 Juche103(2014) Definition 4 Let f , gEN 2 1 1 Strings, Rank (x) be a rank of symbol x, the similarity between EN , 2 and G = 2 G = 1 f 1 g ( ) ( 2 2 1 , , , , ) be two attributed Sim- is n ∈ 1 N n ∈ 2 N and 1 2 defined as follows. sim ( n 1 , n 2 ) N M ⎧ = ∑ ∑ ⎪ ⎨ ⎪ ⎩ 1 = j i W i 1 = ( A vi ) Rank N Rank ( A vi ) ∑ k 1 = where, W i v , j = : a coefficient of weight, v , j ⋅ v sim i , j ( A vi , vj B :) if ( ngCS 1 ( 1 ), ( ng 2 2 )) (2) 0 : th e other v sim i , ( A j vi , vj B 0.1) = − Strings viA and vjB . d ( Rank ( A Rank ( B vj vi ), vi max( Rank ( A ), Rank ( B )) )) vj : the similarity between attributed Sim- If there is none of the mappings such as ( mn , 2 2 ) ∈ , E 2 ( mn , 1 1 ) , ( n 1 ( ∈ of 1G is removed from 1G (or inserted into 2G ). , mm and or there is no edge ∈) ∈) E 1 M M n 2 1 2 The edge removing from 2G (inserting into 1G ) can be defined as above. A set of such these edges is noted as iode (insert or delete edge). In case that an edge isn’t removed or inserted, it is substituted. As it is corresponding to the matching that evaluates the user’s implementation of simulation game, i.e. the grade of skill according to the game scenario, we define the similarity of simulation game as follows. Definition 5 The similarity of an attributed 3D-Sim-String is defined as follows. GGS , 1 ( 2 ) = W n ⋅ sim ( n 1 , n 2 ) + W m ⋅ mmsim 2 1 ( , ) + simW ⋅ ( e e 1 , e 2 ) (3) where E 1 , E 2 : the absolute values of the edges of 1G and 2G , eS ( 1 , e 2 1) −= iode : ( E 1 + E 2 ) the similarity between 1e and 2e , coefficient for evaluation set by scenario maker. WWW e m n , , WWW ( e + + m n = 0 ,1 ≤ WWW e m n , , ≤ )1 : the Conclusion  In the tank-training simulation game, we study our method and compare with the evaluation by teacher. In the paper, the result of experiment shows that the proposed method has a same efficiency as the subjective evaluation by teacher and that it is more detail in some cases. － 28 － Training Scenario Editing based on New Knowledge Structure to Represent Spatio-Temporal… References  [1] J. P. Marques et al.; Pattern Recognition(Concepts, Methods and Applications), Springer, 150～ [2] S. K. Chang et al.; In Proceedings of Fall Joint Computer Conference, 79, 2006. [3] Tao Yang et al.; J. Parallel Distrib. Comput., 64, 921, 2004. [4] A. L. Rosenberg et al.; IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, 18, 11, 648, 158, 2001. 2007. [5] S. Y. Alexandrov et al.; Nuclear Physics, 90, 2003. [6] Ping Yu et al.; Pattern Recognition Letters, 26, 2500, 2005. [7] Z. Gharibian Masihi et al.; Serbia & Montenegro, Belgrade, 11, 22, 2005. [8] E. Vellasques et al.; Pattern Recognition, 41, 3044, 2008. － 29 －