Journal of Kim Il Sung University (Natural Science) Vol. 3 No. 2 Juche103(2014) Effect of Species Diversity on the Stability of the Plant Community in and around the Secret Camp on Mt. Paektu O Chol Su, Ri Kum Sun Abstract We researched various kinds of plant communities and evaluated the effect of species diversity on the community stability in and around the secret camp on Mt. Paektu. In study area, the main communities are Picetum-Abiosum, Betuletum-Picosum-Abiosum, Betuletum-Alnosum, Betuletum-Calamagrostosum, Rhododendrotum, Papavetum-Hedysarosum, Vaccinetum-Arctosum and Rhodioletum. And the climax forest is a spruce forest of Picea jezoensis and Abies nephrolepis, and the succession forest is Betula ermanii-spruce forest. It is also important to evaluate the dominance index to characterize the stability of communities in different stages. Key words Mt. Paektu, plant community, species diversity, community stability  Introduction  The great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung said as follows. “Biological study must be oriented in every way to better protection for and effective use of the existing fauna and flora, so that the people can benefit substantially.” (“KIM IL SUNG WORKS” Vol. 20 P. 465) Mt. Paektu, which is registered as the International biosphere reserve and the national priority area of biodiversity, has a closely growing virgin forest. Therefore, it has a great scientific value throughout the northeast Asia and the world as well as in our country. In the past it has made a progress to investigate flora and plant community of Mt. Paektu throughout the world as well as our country[3]. Recently, the main topic of the forest ecosystem research is to determine the stability of plant community. The main methods to investigate the stability of community were to estimate the composition of the species, coverage rate and the density of population according to the layer, estimate the renewal state and find out whether it was the climax forest or the succession forest. Many researchers have studied the stability of community with primary products, material cycle and present biomass. However, it requires times and costs, therefore some researchers study the stability of community by comparing diversity index[5, 6]. In this case, the discussing problem is whether there is negative correlation or positive one between diversity and stability. In other words, if diversity is high, stability is higher or not. The opinions on this problem are not still agreed, however, many of researchers believe that it is reasonable to accept diversity index to estimate stability. We researched kinds of plant community and evaluated the effect of species diversity on the community stability in the secret camp on Mt. Paektu which was set up as the standard research place. － 71 － Journal of Kim Il Sung University (Natural Science) No. 2 Juche103(2014) 1. Study Area and Methods 1.1. Study Area Study area is 1 600～2 150m above the sea of Jong Il peak, Saja peak and Mt. Sobaek in the secret camp on Mt. Paektu, which is situated on the course of the Amnok River, the west of Mt. Paektu. The annual average temperature is –1.4℃ and annual precipitation is about 1 000mm. 1.2. Study Methods We divided community according to dominant species and evaluated composition and species diversity[1, 2]. The indexes such as Shannon diversity index (H′), Shannon equivalence index (J') and Simpson dominance index (C) are used in evaluating the diversity [4]. H ∑−=′ =′ HJ C ∑= P ln( i P i ln/′ S 2 i P ) (1) (2) (3) , in is individual number of i species, N is total number of individuals and = where NnP i i S is number of species. / stability. We compared diversity indexes and found the effect of species diversity on community We used altimeter(“BARIGO ALTIMETER”), digital camera, ruler, computer and so on.  2. Results 2.1. Kinds of plant community in the secret camp on Mt. Paektu We can divide communities into Picetum-Abiosum, Betuletum-Picosum-Abiosum, Betuletum-Alnosum, Betuletum-Calamagrostosum, Rhododendrotum, Papavetum-Hedysarosum, Vaccinetum-Arctosum and Rhodioletum. 2.1.1. Picetum-Abiosum This community, which is indeciduous coniferous tree in sub alpine zone consisting of Picea jezoensis and Abies nephrolepis, was distributed at 1 600～1 780m in north, northwest, west, southwest and northeast incline of Jong Il peak and at 1 600 ～ 1 800m in west, southwest, southeast and east incline of Saja peak and Mt. Sobaek. The structure and abundance are shown in table 1. The ratio of Picea jezoensis and Abies nephrolepis is 5：5 in Jong Il peak and 6：4 in Saja peak and Mt. Sobaek, respectively. Vertical structure has three layers: primary layer(trees) of Picea jezoensis and Abies nephrolepis, second layer(shrubbery) of Sorbus amurensis, Acer barbinerve, Syringa wolfi, Rosa davurica, Acer ukurunduense and Acer tegmentosum, and third layer(herb) of Streptopus koreanus, Maianthemum dilatatum, Calamagrostis langsdorffii, Thalictrum tuberiferum, Clintonia udensis and Geranium dahuricum and so on. － 72 － Effect of Species Diversity on the Stability of the Plant Community … Table 1. Structure and abundance of Picetum-Abiosum Layer Ⅰ Ⅱ Ⅲ Species Picea jezoensis Abies nephrolepis Sorbus amurensis Acer barbinerve Syringa wolfi Rosa davurica Acer ukurunduense Acer tegmentosum Streptopus koreanus Maianthemum dilatatum Layer Abundance cop3 cop3 Species Smilacina davurica Clintonia udensis Cimicifuga foetida Calamagrostis langsdorffii Thalictrum tuberiferum Carex lanceolata Orthilia parvifolia Majanthemum bifoliu Geranium dahuricum Abundance cop1 cop1 cop1 cop1 cop1 sp sp sp sol Ⅲ cop1 cop1 cop1 cop2 sp sol cop1 cop1 Degree of species saturation per one hundred square metres in Jong Il peak(14 ～ 16) is higher than the one in the other regions(11 ～ 13). This is because that Jong Il peak has a micro climate by surrounding with higher mountains such as Saja peak and Mt. Sobaek and therefore it consists of variety flora in alpine grassland, sub arctic zone and north temperate zone. 2.1.2. Betuletum-Picosum-Abiosum This community, which is distributed at 1 600～1 700m in east, southeast, south and southwest incline of Jong Il peak and at 1 600～1 850m in east, southeast, southwest incline of Saja peak and Mt. Sobaek, is hemi-evergreen forest with Picea jezoensis and Abies nephrolepis of 60%. The dominance species are Betula ermanii, Picea jezoensis and Abies nephrolepis and the company species are trees such as Larix oligensis, Picea koraiensis, Sorbus amurensis, Acer barbinerve and Syringa wolfi, and grasses such as Pedicularis respinata var. oppositifolia, Maianthemum dilatatum and Oxalis acetosella(table 2). Table 2. The structure and abundance of Betuletum-Picosum-Abiosum Abundance Layer Species Weigela florida form. leucanth Spiraea blumei Abundance sol un Ⅱ Layer Ⅰ Species Betula ermanii Picea jezoensis Abies nephrolepis Picea koraiensis Larix oligensis Ⅱ Sorbus amurensis Acer barbinerve Syringa wolfi Rosa davurica Lonicera caerulea var. emphyllocalyx Acer ukurunduense Rhododendron dahuricum cop2 cop2 cop2 sol un cop1 cop1 cop1 cop1 cop1 sp sp Ⅲ Pedicularis respinata var. oppositifolia Majanthemum dilatatum Carex siderosticta Calamagrostis langsdorffii Oxalis acetosella Clintonia udensis Streptopus koreanus Phlomis koraiensis Orthilia parvifolia cop3 cop2 cop1 cop1 cop1 sp sp sp sol Here, degree of species saturation per one hundred square meters is 18～20. It was higher than Picetum-Abiosum. We considered that this community was the one in the transition step and made a condition for more plants to enter than in spruce community. － 73 － Journal of Kim Il Sung University (Natural Science) No. 2 Juche103(2014) 2.1.3. Betuletum-Alnosum This community has Betula ermanii and Alnus maximowiczii, the main superiority species and therefore it can be considered as the community of the deciduous broadleaf high trees in sub arctic zone. It was distributed in the top at 1 750m of Jong Il peak and at 1 750～2 150m in northwest and southeast of Saja peak and Mt. Sobaek. Alnus maximowiczii was more sparse than Betula ermanii in south slope rather than north incline. This is due to that Betula ermanii is photophily plant, but Alnus maximowiczii is shade-tolerant one. It has 4 layers: primary of Betula ermanii and Alnus maximowiczii, second of Sorbus amurensis and Acer barbinerve, third of Rosa davurica and Echinopanax elatum and the last of Clintonia udensis, Oxalis acetosella, Majanthemum dilatatum and Pedicularis respinata var. oppositifolia(table 3). Layer Ⅰ Ⅱ Ⅲ Table 3. The structure and abundance of Betuletum-Alnosum Species Betula ermanii Alnus maximowiczii Species Rhododendron dahuricum Weigela hortensis Abundance Layer cop3 cop3 Ⅲ Abundance sol un Betula plantyphylla Acer barbinerve Sorbus amurensis Rosa davurica Syringa wolfi Echinopanax elatum sp cop1 sp sp sp sp Ⅳ Clintonia udensis Synurus deltoids Oxalis acetosella Majanthemum dilatatum Pedicularis respinata var. oppositifolia Boschniakia rossica cop2 cop1 cop1 sp sol sol 2.1.4. Betuletum-Calamagrostosum This community was composed of 10% of Betula ermanii and Calamagrostis langsdorffii, and Betula ermanii distributed in top and steep gradient incline at 1 780m above of south and westsouth of Jong Il peak and at 1 900～2 000m of Mt. Sobaek and Saja peak. It has two layers(table 4). In Jong Il peak, the degree of crown contact is low as about 0.2 and the coverage rate is 80% above, especially nearly 100% in south west. Table 4. The structure and abundance of Betuletum-Calamagrostosum Species Abundance Layer Ⅰ Betula ermanii Abies nephrolepis Ⅱ Calamagrostis langsdorffii sp sol soc This community occupy low ration throughout all study area and has a boundary line with alpine grassland zone. It has a scientific significance in studying the change pattern of thimber line. In addition, there were Rhododendrotum, Papavetum-Hedysarosum, Vaccinetum-Arctosum and Rhodioletum. 2.2. Effect of species diversity on stability of plant community We decided that climax forest is spruce one and succession forest is Betula ermanii– spruce one in study area and evaluated diversity at quarts in typical sites reflecting these characters. － 74 － Effect of Species Diversity on the Stability of the Plant Community … Data was divided into three parts: Jong Il peak, Saja peak and Mt. Sobaek and total area. First, we investigated species diversity of climax forests and succession forests in Jong Il peak. The results are shown in table 5. Table 5. Value of diversity indexes of climax and succession forests in Jong Il peak As shown in Table 5, the value of diversity index in climax forest is smaller(about 0.5) and the value of dominance index is larger than in succession forest. However, value of equivalence index was similar. Climax forest Succession forest Number of species(S) 13 24 Diversity index(H′) 2.08 2.51 Equivalence index(J′) 0.81 0.79 Dominance index(C) 0.15 0.10 Sort Next, we investigated species diversity of climax forests and succession forests in peripheral sites of Jong Il peak such as Saja peak and Mt. Sobaek(table 6). Table 6. Value of diversity indexes of climax and succession forests in peripheral sites of Jong Il peak Sort Climax forest Succession forest Number of species(S) 11 18 Diversity  index(H′) 1.34 1.92 Equivalence index(J′) 0.56 0.67 Dominance index(C) 0.37 0.21 Also, the values of diversity index between climax forest and succession one are different(about 0.6). That is, value of succession forest is larger than climax one. On the contrary, value of dominance index of climax forest is higher. Table 7 shows the values of diversity indexes of total study area. The value of species diversity index of succession forest(2.38) is much higher than climax forest(1.84). The value of dominance index is contrary(climax forest is 0.24 and succession forest is 0.13). The value of equivalence index is a little larger than in the succession forest. Table 7. Value of diversity indexes of climax and succession forests in total study area Number of species(S) 15 27 Equivalence index(J′) 0.68 0.72 Diversity index(H′) 1.84 2.38 Sort Climax forest Succession forest Dominance index(C) 0.24 0.13 From these results, we can see that species diversity index in climax forest is lower than in succession forest. On the contrary, dominance index is larger. Value of equivalence index didn’t show distinguished difference. So we can say that our results are more consistent with May[6], who believed that the larger the value of dominance index is, the more stable the community is, than with MacArthur and Huchinson[5], who considered that diversity induce stability, the more diverse the community is, the more stable the community is, and diversity is ratio with the degree of equivalence. In order to see it in production power, we measured and compared the diameters of breast height(DBH) of Betula ermanii, Picea jezoensis and Abies nephrolepis in Betula ermanii forest, spruce forest and mixed forest, respectively(Fig. 1－3). － 75 － Journal of Kim Il Sung University (Natural Science) No. 2 Juche103(2014) Fig. 1. Distributional character in DBH of some species in Betula ermanii forest 1－Picea jezoensis, 2－Abies nephrolepis, 3－Betula ermanii Fig. 2. Distributional character in DBH of some species in mixed forest 1－Picea jezoensis, 2－Abies nephrolepis, 3－Betula ermanii As shown in Fig. 1, 2 and 3, the natural virgin forest of spruce changes from Betula ermanii forest to Betula ermanii-spruce forest and then spruce forest. And the succession forest is mixed forest and the state of dominance species in each community reflects the stability of its community. From this, we considered that it is reasonable to evaluate the stability of community by using the value of dominance index.  Conclusion  We reviewed the effect of species diversity on the stability of forest plant community by Fig. 3. Distributional character in DBH of some species in spruce forest 1－Picea jezoensis, 2－Abies nephrolepis, 3－Betula ermanii analyzing the values of diversity index. communities in stages of different changes. It is reasonable to evaluate the value of dominance index in estimating the stabilities of We think it is more suitable that diversity increases in inverse proportion to dominance rather than in proportion to the degree of equ ce.ivalen References  [1] 마영덕; 식물생태학, 종합대학출판사, 102～132, 1991. [2] 주일순; 식물지리학, 종합대학출판사, 117～121, 1978. [3] 김현삼 등; 백두산총서(식물), 과학기술출판사, 51～53, 1992. [4] E. M. Clandia et al.; Biodiversity and Conservation, 10, 3, 367, 2001. [5] 罗菊眷 等; 林业科学, 33, 6, 498, 1997. [6] 吴东亮 等; 林业科学, 34, 1, 65, 1998. － 76 －