김일성종합대학학보 (자연과학) JOURNAL OF KIM IL SUNG UNIVERSITY (NATURAL SCIENCE) 주체103(2014)년 제60권 제6호 Vol. 60 No. 6  JUCHE103(2014). Joint Inversion of Self-Potential (SP) and Magnetic Anomalies due to 2D Dike Ri Il Gyong and Kim In Chan The earlier research papers[3] dealt with only theoretical  relationship between magnetic anomaly and SP anomaly, and did not propose joint inversion. This paper newly proposed joint inversion of magnetic anomaly and SP anomaly due to 2D dike and analyzed its prop- erties through model experiment. 1. Joint Inversion method of Magnetic and Self-Potential (SP) Anomalies due to 2D dike When one body generates both SP and magnetic anomalies, let’s suppose that that mag- parameters parameters and SP polarization body by netic body can be represented by and among and is repeated. When expressing the parameter of magnetic body as and parameter of SP polariza- , the parameters of magnetic and SP polarization body can be expressed as tion body as . That is (1) where elements among parameters of SP polarization and body, and the relationship of is established. is number of magnetic and SP polarization body, number of zero  number of  parameter of magnetic Problem of finding parameter P of magnetic and SP polarization body from measure- ments of full magnetic anomaly and SP anomaly results in problem finding model parameter P minimizing the following object function: (2) where, and are theoretical SP anomaly and magnetic anomaly respectively cor- responding to model parameters,  and given by and SP and magnetic weight matrixes respectively  covariance matrixes for mag- , and netic anomaly and SP anomaly respectively and in case these are not known we take these as unit. － 146 － Joint Inversion of Self-Potential(SP) and Magnetic Anomalies due to 2D dike Expanding formulas of SP and magnetic anomalies to Tyler series around initial approxi- , truncating high order terms for parameter perturbation and minimizing object  with respect to , following equation is obtained: mate vector function where, subscripts s and t in brackets express SP anomaly and magnetic anomaly respectively.  parameter perturbation, I unit And subscript k is iterative number,  control parameter, matrix, A and B matrixes of sensitivities of SP anomaly and magnetic anomaly respectively, elements of which are as follows: (4) (5) After solving equation (3) and finding parameter perturbation , the next step solution is calculated by This iteration is repeated until object function  and SP anomaly Magnetic anomaly converges to given error limit.  over the 2D dike as seen in Fig are (6) expressed respectively [1, 2]. (3) (7) (8) where x is horizontal position of measurement point, body, h and dipole moment of SP polarization  depth and horizontal position of the dike respectively, b half thickness of the  absolute permit- inclination angle of dike, dike, tivity of vacuum, I the inclination of the earth’s mag- mag- netic field,  , netic moment of the magnetic dike, effective magnetic inclination, , , distances between measurement point M and points A, B,  angles , C and D respectively, , and , between vertical line going down from measurement point M and sight lines looking points A, B, C and D (Fig.). Fig. 2D dike model So we must determine parameter of 2D dike as the following: － 147 － Journal of Kim Il Sung University (Natural Science) No. 6 Juche 103(2014) 2. Properties of Joint Inversion We estimated the properties of the proposed method through model experiment. In model experiments, interval between measurement points was 5m and the numbers of those were 30 respectively and therefore total numbers of those (sum of SP measurements and magnetic measurements) were 60. To simulate field environment, we added random noises corresponding 5% of anomaly value in each measurement points to theoretical SP and magnet- ic anomalies, and iteration was finished when relative error was 5%. The results of joint inversion, inversion of only SP anomaly and inversion of only mag- netic anomaly are shown in the following table. Here, parameters of 2D dike and its initial approximation are selected so that those are the same as each other for joint inversion and individual inversions. Table. Results of joint inversion and individual anomaly inversion Parameter True value Initial approximation Joint inversion Magnetic inversion SP inversion h/m 2b Model relative  error /% 5 20 75 5 30 60 5 10 5 30 2 10 30 10 5.1 19.6 74.7 4.7 31.8 59.7 5.1 2.7 －11.5(divergence) 64.7(divergence) －148.9(divergence) －9.7(divergence) －5(divergence) 111.4(divergence) － － 22.4 75.9 3.0 24.5 60.2 10.0 (divergence) 28.64 As seen in the table, inversion using only magnetic anomaly could not find correct model parameter and diverged, whereas inversion using only SP anomaly found model parameter with model relative error of 28.64%. But joint inversion found comparatively correct model parame- ter with model relative error of 2.7%. Conclusion  We established the method of joint inversion of magnetic and self-spontaneous anomalies over 2D dike and estimated its properties. We have verified throughout model experiment that our joint inversion has wide radius of convergence and little polyvalence than individual in- versions of magnetic anomaly or self-spontaneous anomaly. Our joint inversion can be effec- tively used in simultaneously interpreting magnetic and self-spontaneous anomalies measured over 2D dike and clarifying the parameters. References  [1] 신태경; 자력탐사학, [2] 리일경; 전기탐사학, [3] H. V. Ram Babu; Geophysics, 68, 1, 181, 2003. － 148 － , 82, 주체95(2006). , 201, 주체99(2010).