김일성종합대학학보 (자연과학) JOURNAL OF KIM IL SUNG UNIVERSITY (NATURAL SCIENCE) 주체103(2014)년 제60권 제6호 Vol. 60 No. 6  JUCHE103(2014). A Constancy of Curvature of Statistical Manifolds with Connection Min Chol Rim, Ro Kwang Won In this paper, we study a constancy of curvature of a statistical manifold, which is im- portantly studied in the information geometry recently. In [2], an connection was introduced into a statistical manifold and a condition for a flat was studied, in [3], a condition for a statistical manifold connection to be conjugate symmetric, and in [1], a condition for a statistical statistical manifold to be with an manifold with an connection to be conjugate Ricci- symmetric It has been found that an equiaffine structure of a statistical manifold is concerned with a constancy of curvature of a statistical manifold and there has been consideration of proper- ties of a Hessian manifold of a constant Hessian curvature, which is a special statistical mani- fold (see [3, 4]). The studies in [4] imply a necessity for considering a constancy of curvature of a statis- connection. Such a study is also a continuation of the previous tical manifold with an study [1－3]. stant curvature. Hence, we study conditions that a statistical manifold with an connection is of con- For any , a connection is defined in a statistical manifold by , where and are dual connections on . Then is also a statistical manifold. Let’s considerate the condition that a statistical manifold is of constant curvature for any . Theorem 1 A statistical manifold is of constant curvature for any if there exist such that statistical manifolds and are of constant curvature. Proof Without generality, we assume . Then since holds for any , the following relation － 25 － Journal of Kim Il Sung University (Natural Science) No. 6 Juche103(2014) is the difference tensor field of a statistical manifold. (1) (2) holds, where From the relations the relation holds, that is, a statistical manifold is of constant curvature . Example 1 Let be a family of normal distributions: We define an connection by the following: Then the statistical manifold is of constant curvature ,and the statisti- cal manifold manifold is of constant curvature is of constant curvature . Hence for any , the statistical Example 2 Let be a family of random walk distributions [1]: . . . , , . We define an connection by the following: － 26 － A Constancy of Curvature of Statistical Manifolds with Connection Then the statistical manifold is of constant curvature ,and the statisti- cal manifold constant curvature . Hence for any , the statistical mani- fold is of constant curvature . Theorem 1 implies the following facts.  Corollary 1 If there exist such that the statistical manifold is of constant curvature and the statistical manifold constant curvature , and holds, then for , the statistical manifold is of is of constant curvature . Corollary 2 If there exist is of constant curvature and the statistical manifold con- such that the statistical manifold stant curvature ,and holds, then for satisfying that , the statistical manifold is flat. Example 3 , and hold in example 1 and example 2. Hence for satisfying that Theorem 2 If the Hessian manifold , the statistical manifold is flat. is of constant Hessian curvature, the statistical manifold is of constant curvature for any Proof If the Hessian manifold is of constant Hessian curvature, holds. On the other hand, the curvature tensor of Levi-Civita connection is written by where is the curvature tensor of and is difference tensor . . , , where is curvature tensor of dual con- nection hand, the statistical manifold , that is, the statistical manifold is of constant curvature. On the other  is flat, that is, constant curvature 0. Therefore we finish the proof of theorem from theorem 1. Then implies － 27 － Journal of Kim Il Sung University (Natural Science) No. 6 Juche103(2014) 3. Conclusion We found a condition that the statistical manifold for any . We also showed that if the Hessian manifold is of constant curvature  is of constant Hes- sian curvature, the statistical manifold is of constant curvature for any , References  [1] 민철림 등; 조선민주주의인민공화국 과학원통보, 2, 11, 주체98(2009). [2] J. Zhang; AISM, 59, 161, 2007. [3] H. Matsuzoe et al.; Diff. Geom. Appl., 24, 567, 2006. [4] H. Furuhata; Diff. Geom. Appl., 27, 420, 2009. － 28 －