김일성종합대학학보 (자연과학) JOURNAL OF KIM IL SUNG UNIVERSITY (NATURAL SCIENCE) 주체103(2014)년 제60권 제6호 Vol. 60 No. 6  JUCHE103(2014). Differential Subordination and Superordination of a Subclass of Analytic Functions Defined by Sălăgean Operator Min Sang Ju, Kim Mu Yong The great leader Kim Jong Il said: “Only when the basic knowledge of science, the foundation of science and technology, is sound can we build the tower of specialized science and technology high and rapidly develop science and technology in general.” In this paper we obtained some differential subordination and superordination for analytic functions defined by Sălăgean operator. [1] obtained sufficient conditions for functions to satisfy and [2] obtained sufficient conditions to satisfy by generalizing the result of [1] for the subclass of analytic functions defined by a linear operator . [3] considered the inclusion definition and differential subordination of the subclass of analytic functions defined by the Sălăgean operator . This article generalized the results of [1] by obtaining the sufficient conditions to satisfy differential subordination and the sufficient conditions to satisfy superordination , , , . In the unit circle , the set of the analytic function  and the set of the analytic functions that are standardized by the condi- is labeled tions are labeled A. These are called a star function and a convex function respectively. As for the two functions in the unit circle , the － 3 － Journal of Kim Il Sung University (Natural Science) No. 6 Juche103(2014) convolution or Hadamard product of and  is defined by The following linear operator is called Sălăgean operator[4] The Dziok-Srivastava operator is defined by . ; where , . Definition 1 When  is the subordinate to and ( are analytic functions in the unit circle is superordinate to ) and or there exists a Schwarz function analytic in . If is subordinate to , with  is called dominant of nants of , if then is called the best dominant of .And if , , if  such that . For all domi- is superordi- nate to , is called the best subordinant if for all subordinants of . Definition 2 Let . Denote by the set of all functions that are analytic and injective on , where , and are such that . Results  Theorem 1 Let  be convex in the unit circle and let the following subordination If satisfies then and  is the best dominant. Proof By setting  and are analytic in Also, letting . obtain the following result from the conditions of this theorem; － 4 － , it can be easily observed that  and , then we Differential Subordination and Superordination of a Subclass of Analytic Functions Defined… Let the function be defined by , so that, by a straight computation, we have . From the condition of this theorem, , by using the theorem 3.4h of [6], and  is the best dominant. Remark 1 By setting Theorem 2 Let , , , we obtain the theorem 3 of [1]. be analytic and univalent in the unit circle with and be star function in . If satisfies the following subordination then and  is the best dominant. Proof By setting and  is analytic in Also, letting , it can be easily observed that is analytic in and . then we obtain the following result from the conditions of this theorem; . Let the function be defined by , so that, by a straight computation, we have . From the condition of this theorem, by using the theorem 3.4h of [6], and  is the best dominant. , , , we obtain the theorem 4 of [1]. be convex in the unit circle with and for Remark 2 By setting Theorem 3 Let , . － 5 － Journal of Kim Il Sung University (Natural Science) No. 6 Juche103(2014) Let , , If satisfies the following subordination be univalent in . then and  is the best subordinant. Proof By setting  and are analytic in , it can be easily observed that and From the condition of this theorem, . By using the theorem of [7], and  is the best subordinant. Theorem 4 Let and be convex in the unit circle with . , and , . Let , ( ) , If satisfies the following subordination be univalent in . and is the best dominant and is the best subordi- － 6 － for then nant. Differential Subordination and Superordination of a Subclass of Analytic Functions Defined… References  [1] V. Ravichandran; Far East J. Math. Sci., 12, 41, 2004. [2] V. Ravichandran et al.; Acta Mathematica Vietnamica, 30, 2, 113, 2005. [3] M. Acu; General Mathematics, 12, 3, 67, 2004. [4] G. S. Sălăgean; Subclasses of Univalent Functions, Lecture Notes in Math, Springer-Verlag, 362 [5] J. Dziok et al.; Integral Transform. Spec. Funct., 14, 7, 2003. [6] S. S. Miller et al.; Differential Subordinations, Theory and Applications, Marcel Dekker Inc., 4 ～372, 1983. ～37, 2000. [7] T. Bulboaca; Demonstr. Math., 35, 2, 287, 2002. － 7 －