김일성종합대학학보 (자연과학) JOURNAL OF KIM IL SUNG UNIVERSITY (NATURAL SCIENCE) 주체103(2014)년 제60권 제6호 Vol. 60 No. 6  JUCHE 103(2014). Some Classification Issues of Locational Type of County Industrial Bases in DPR Korea Kim Yong Nam What is important in developing the local economy with a county as a unit, and making out the general plan of the county land development is to rationally distribute the county in- dustrial bases and develop the county economy in the long-term perspective so that the physi- ographical and economic conditions and the potential of the county are given fullest play to. The physiographical and economic conditions and the potential in distribution of the local economy of each county decide the characteristics and the locational type of the county indus- trial bases. Therefore, the location of the industrial bases can be characterized according to the characteristics and the locational type of the county industrial bases and on this basis, the county-scale regions can be classified in terms of the location and development of the local economy. These classifications are important in deciding the location of the industry and develop- ment trend of the county-scale regions and making the general plans for the county’s land development. For this reason, this article set the subject of classification of the county-scale regions ac- cording to the location of the county industrial bases in terms of the location and develop- ment of the industry, and tried to give answers to the subject. A county-scale region in our country means a city, or a county as an administrative dis- trict. The county industrial base, therefore, means a type of industrial location that is formed in a certain range by the combination of one or more factories and enterprises in a city or a county. The county industrial base characterizes the location of the industry, development standard and scale of the economy of the county and according to the physiographical and economic conditions, the industrial bases are distributed in one or more places. The analysis of the location and the development trend of the county industrial bases en- ables us to have a clear understanding of the location of the industry of each type of county industrial bases and on this basis, the county-scale regions can be classified. The analysis is done on the basis of the physiographical and economic conditions of a certain region, the degree of specialization and scale of the economic sectors, the potentials, scale and the locational types of the county industrial bases. － 127 － Journal of Kim Il Sung University (Natural Science) No. 6 Juche 103(2014) First, the county industry base can be classified according to the physiographic and eco- nomic geographical condition of each county. The industrial bases in our country can be divided into three types of highland areas, midland areas and coastal plain areas in terms of the physiographical and economic conditions. Mountains are easily found and the sea level of the land is high between the lowland areas and highland areas. Different physiographical and economic conditions and composition of land and crops mean different raw materials for the local economy – this means that the location and development trend of the local economy are different in different regions. The county industry base can also be classified according to the composition and propor- tion of the industrial sectors of the county. The leading sector in the industrial development depends not only on the physiographical conditions but also on whether the county prioritizes industry or agriculture and the potentials and functions of the development of the local economy. This can influence the location of the industrial bases in terms of the composition and proportion of the industrial sectors. Next, the county industry base can also be classified according to the scale and locational types. The scale of the industrial bases means the number of the employees working in the bases. The scale depends on the physiographical and economic conditions, location of different industrial sectors and the location of the central and local economy. The locational type of the county-scale regions depend on the concentration and disper- sion of industrial bases, and points given to the distributed places of the bases, which also depends on the physiographical and economic conditions, location of different industrial sectors and the location of the central and local economy. The regions can be specifically classified according to the classification indices and on the basis of the fixed values of the indices. That is the county-scale regions can be classified according to the physiographical conditions into three types of midland, coastal plain and high- land areas, according to the economic conditions into three types of industrial, industrial and agricultural and agricultural, according to the specialization of the production into three types of mining, processing and local industry regions. The classification indices include: Height of the region (lower than 100m/100~400m/higher than 400m); Proportion of cultivated land (more than 55%/20~55%/less than 20%); Proportion of the forestland (more than 60%/20~60%/less than 20%); Proportion of paddy fields (more than 60%/20~60%/less than 20%); Proportion of dry fields (more than 70%/30~70%/less than 30%); Proportion of industrial workers (more than 60%/40~60%/less than 40%); Proportion of farmers (more than 60%/40~60%/less than 40%); Number of industrial bases; Number of employees in the mining industry (Large/small); Number of employees in the processing industry (Large/small); － 128 － Some Classification Issues of Locational Type of County Industrial Bases in DPR of Korea Number of employees in the local industry (Large/small); and Distance to major industrial districts and major traffic knots (Far/normal/near). Types of county-scale regions and their features classified according to the location and the development trend of the industry and other classification results based on these factors are very important for the industrial development and making the general plan for the land development. First, the character and direction of the industrial development of each county can be de- cided. This can decide the potentials of natural resources (types of natural resources and their position in the national economy) – which is the fundamental source of the formation and development of the industrial bases, the characteristics and direction of the development of the industrial cities and districts which are the center of intersector, interregional correlations, physiographical conditions, the characteristics and direction of the development of the local economy by combination of different sectors like industry, agriculture, fishery, pomiculture, stockbreeding and forestry. The classification of the county regions according to the location and development trend of the industrial regions also suggests us the direction of industrial location according to the characteristics of the development of the local economy. This means that the position, scale and place of the industrial location of the county industry can be determined. For example, we can learn from the classification whether a certain county will prioritize a certain industrial sector, whether a county will become an industrial town, what the development trend and the location trend will be in the future, how the relations between the central and local economy will develop and so on. The classification can also evaluate the level and stage of the development of the county industry. Generally, industrial bases first produce raw materials; later, they produce raw materials and process them to a certain extent to manufacture finished goods; then they develop highly to produce only finished goods. This is the traditional way the development of industrial bases takes. There, we can see from the classification result what stage of development the county is at and how it will develop. The level of the county industry can be decided on the basis of the gross industrial product, gross industrial product per capita, the proportion of service industry, number of em- ployees in scientific and technological industries, the proportion of the central industry and so on; these factors all decide the location and development trend of the local economy. Conclusion  Research into the classification of the county-scale regions is very important for distrib － 129 － Journal of Kim Il Sung University (Natural Science) No. 6 Juche 103(2014) uting and developing the industrial bases according to the physiographical conditions of the counties and for making the general plan for the county land development. References  [1] 김영남; 공업배치계획, [2] 陈才; 区域经济地理学, 科学出版社, 64～170, 2009. 종합대학출판사, 127～165, 주체99(2010). － 130 －