김일성종합대학학보 (자연과학) JOURNAL OF KIM IL SUNG UNIVERSITY (NATURAL SCIENCE) 주체103(2014)년 제60권 제6호 Vol. 60 No. 6  JUCHE 103(2014). Photocatalytic Applications of Transformed Rutile Mineral Ju Hye Ryon, Ri Kwang Yong and Kim Chol Hyok The great leader Kim Jong Il said: “We should exert every effort to develop science and technology, and thus overtake and outstrip other countries in this regard. We should work miracles in raising our science and technology to the highest world standard.” TiO2 is chemically stable and has high photocatalytic activity, therefore many studies are vigorously carried out to use it as a photocatalyst and raw materials, preparations and applica- tions are various. Up to now photocatalysts were mainly made from titanium tetrachloride and buthoxytita- nium [2－4] and there is no report on the use of rutile mineral. This paper studied the applications of photocatalyst prepared by means of transforming method of using rutile mineral we had developed. 1. Decomposition Characteristics of Organic Compounds on Concrete Coated with the Photocatalyst The sample was prepared using the same method as in the preceding research. [1]. To study photocatalysis, photolysis efficiency of the active red dye “2B－F”,which is very stable under UV, was investigated on the photocatalyst. 1.1. Decomposition efficiency of active dye by the photocatalyst amount coated on the concrete To determine the photocatalyst amount, various amounts of pure anatase samples were dispersed in a certain amount of distilled water and the surface (50cm2) of concrete was smoothly coated with one of the dispersion solutions as mortar was almost hardened. According to the method mentioned above, a series of concrete samples were prepared. A sample was sunk in a quartz glass beaker with 30ml of the dye “2B－F” (11mg /dm3) for 48h under the dark condition to reach the saturated absorption and at that time the absorbance of the solution was regarded as the initial absorbance. After UV irradiation for 1h, by measuring the absorbance of bleached solution using UV & visible spectrophotometer(“UV－2201”), the decomposition efficiency was determined. The results were shown in the Fig. 1. Fig. 1 showed that the maximum value was 2.4mg/cm3. As the catalyst amount increases － 82 － Characteristics of Temperature Control of CdTe Crystal Growth Furnace by Vertical… after the maximum value, the decomposition effi- ciency of the dye was decreased more and more. This is attributed to the desorption of absorbed dye on the photocatalyst. The more the photo catalytic amount per unit area, the more the absorption amount of dye, thus the amount of desorption in- creases. 1.2. Change of decomposition characteristics Fig. 1. Decomposition efficiency of the dye by catalyst amount on various photocatalysts In the case of the sample acid-treated after planetary ball-milling treatment, the decomposition efficiency was 92.2 % (94.5% for pure ana- tase). The decomposition efficiency of sample treated by planetary ball-milling was 77.1%. 2. Photolysis Characteristics of the Dye by the Photocatalyst being Coated On Tile 2.1. Experiment To determine the photocatalyst amount, the surface (20cm2) of tile was coated with water glass (5%), various amounts of pure anatase samples were dispersed in 1 ～ 2 drops of distilled water and just as the tile was dried, the tile was smooth- ly coated with one of the dispersion solutions. Ac- cording to the method mentioned above, a series of tile samples were prepared. Fig. 2. Change in decomposition efficiency of active red dye by photocatalyst being coated on concrete 1－no catalyst, 2－ball milled sample, 3－ball milled and acid treated sample, 4－pure anatase A sample was sunk in a quartz glass beaker with 30mL of the dye “2B-F” (11mg /dm3) for 48h under the dark condition to reach the saturated absorption and at that time the ab- sorbance of the solution was regarded as the initial absorbance. And then under 250W UV light the absorb- ances of the solution were measured every one hour to determine the decomposition efficiency. 2.2. The optimal amount of photocatalyst Fig. 3 showed a curve of the decomposition ef- ficiency according to the amount of the catalyst. The optimum was 4mg/cm3. － 83 － Fig. 3. Decomposition efficiency of the dye by catalyst amount Journal of Kim Il Sung University (Natural Science) No. 6 Juche103(2014) 2.3. Change of decomposition characteristics on various photocatalysts The result was shown in Fig. 4. As shown in Pic.4, when it comes to the case of the tile samples, the tendency was also similar to the case of the concrete samples. The decomposition efficiency on photocatalyst treated by planetary ball mill for 10h was 71.9% under 250w UV light for 5h and this result was much higher than rutile mineral (41.9%). But the decomposition efficiency on ball- mill treated, acid activated photo catalyst was 89.9% near to that of pure anatase(91.5%). The high photocatalysis of only planetary ball mill treated catalyst is due to the increase of spe- cific surface area and partial occurrence of lattice defect during treatment. The ball-mill treated and acid activated cata- lyst reveals higher photocatalysis because surfacial rutile was transformed into anatase Fig. 4. Change in decomposition efficiency of active red dye by photocatalyst being coated on tile 1－no catalyst, 2－rutile mineral, 3－acid treated sample, 4－ball milled sample, 5－ball milled and acid treated sample, 6－pure anatase Conclusion  It was investigated that good photo catalyst for facing could be manufactured by the mechano-chemical process from rutile mineral buried in our country. The decomposition efficiency of active red dye by photo catalyst under the irradiation of 250W UV light was 77.1% in the catalyst processed by the planetary ball-mill and 92.2% in the acid-processed catalyst. References  [1] (자연과학), 58, 5, 90, 주체101(2012). [2] M. Anpo et al.; Curr. Opinion in Solid State and Mater. Sci., 6, 381, 2002. [3] 张万忠 等; 化学通报, 68, 11, 839, 2005. [4] 方晓明 等; 化工进展, 9, 17, 2001. － 84 －