김일성종합대학학보 (자연과학) JOURNAL OF KIM IL SUNG UNIVERSITY (NATURAL SCIENCE) 주체103(2014)년 제60권 제6호 Vol. 60 No. 6  JUCHE 103(2014). Method of Marking Places and Course of On-the-Spot Guidance on Revolutionary History Maps Kang Yong Ho The respected Comrade Kim Jong Un said: “Comrade Kim Jong Il was a peerless patriot; he loved his country and fellow people more ardently than anybody else did, and he devoted his whole life to achieving the prosperi- ty of the country and the happiness of the people. Thus he performed imperishable exploits that are etched in the history of the country.” This paper presents a method of systemizing and representing in general the historical da- ta of a certain period. There are two traditional ways of drawing historical maps. One is to relate the distribu- tion of points to the historical events. Another is to show the course of movement by adding in-depth comments on the historical events just at the points. [1－3] However, the map cannot describe the revolutionary activities in detail. Moreover, the revolutionary relics, courses of the on-the-spot guidance in particular, are not well-known and cannot be described on the map. Attention was paid to the following facts while analyzing the information on historical relics associated with the on-the-spot guidance. First, on-the-spot guidance was made in one area several times. Second, courses of the on-the-spot guidance cannot be proved. Third, points of the on-the-spot guidance are densely concentrated in some areas. Fourth, Facts about the on-the-spot guidance are only partially published. We named the areas where the points of the on-the-spot guidance are concentrated “on- the-spot guidance areas”. In some areas, the starting point and reaching point of the guidance are known, but the course of the guidance is not clearly known. These kinds of courses were named “no-path courses”. The “on-the-spot guidance area” and the “no-path courses” have following characteristics. First, on-the-spot guidance area is an area where the points of on-the-spot guidance by The great leader Kim Jong Il are densely distributed. Second, on-the-spot guidance area does not have clear boundary. Boundary line in this area can be confirmed according to the natural and economic geo- graphical conditions, distribution of administrative divisions, and distribution of the on-the-spot guidance points. － 116 － Method of Marking Places and Course of On-the-Spot Guidance on Revolutionary History Maps Third, an area with several on-the-spot guidance places where the great General had visit- ed several times can be considered as an on-the-spot guidance area. Fourth, starting point and the reaching point of the no-path courses do not clearly indi- cate any one point. The starting and reaching points are represented by different arrow signs. Fifth, no-path courses do not indicate specific course of guidance. The maps show only simple geographical information and the guidance places are repre- sented in detail. The on-the-spot guidance areas are painted in background and boundary lines are set as mentioned above. The on-the-spot guidance areas are painted green so as to make it easy to notice the areas. The border of background color is not the natural or administrative border. This boundary line had been chosen in an oval shape that comprises the densely distributed guidance places. The border of the area is not marked on the map. With January 1 as the starting point, the course from the starting point to the reaching point is marked with solid lines and the returning course is marked with dotted liens. In order to show the courses of guidance at various dates, the data is arranged in the chronological order. (See Fig.) As for repeated guidance, the courses were marked in differ- ent colors so that they are distinguished visually. The starting date and the ending date can be written on the lines. This method was applied when editing Figure.146 ‘The courses of the on -the -spot gu idan ce b y the great leader  Kim Jong Il in 2011’ of Part 7 of ‘Revolutionary History Fig. Arrows in the courses Atlas of the great leader Kim Jong Il.’ Conclusion  This method makes it possible to show complicated information systematically.  References  [1] 위대한 령도자 선군혁명사, 사회과학출판사, 100～300, 주체97(2008). [2] 윤광현; 전문지도편찬, , 100～112, 1982. [3] А. М. Тикунов; Картография, МГУ, 175～190, 2004. － 117 －