김일성종합대학학보 (자연과학) JOURNAL OF KIM IL SUNG UNIVERSITY (NATURAL SCIENCE) 주체103(2014)년 제60권 제6호 Vol. 60 No. 6  JUCHE103(2014). Some Properties of the Projective-Conformal Semi-Symmetric Connection in a Riemannian Manifold Ho Tal Yun, Pak Pom I In [1] a conformal semi-symmetric connection was defined as a connection that is con- formally equivalent to Levi-Civita connection and discovered its properties, and based on it, proved that there exists a projective conformal semi-symmetric connection in a Riemannian manifold. In [5] it was discovered that the projective conformal symmetric connection is only the Levi-Civita connection itself. In [2] the projective conformal transformation and its invari- ant were considered in a statistical manifold. And in [6] the curvature copy problem between symmetric connections was studied in a Riemannian manifold. In [7] it was pointed out that there is no notion of minimum path length associated with the geodesics of any non-metric connection in a Riemannian manifold. On the basis of the preceding study we considered properties of the projective-conformal semi-symmetric connection, namely the one form of non-metric connection, and proved that geodesic is minimum path length associated with geodesics of the connection in a Riemannian manifold. In a Riemannian manifold the conformal semi-symmetric connection is a connection satisfying the equation for a 1-form and a conformal transformation of metric (1) (2) where is the Riemannian metric and and is the torsion tensor compo- nent of the connection and is a component of the 1-form . The connection coeffi- cient of the conformal semi-symmetric connection is (3) where is the Christofell symbol and . In a Riemannian manifold the connection coefficient of the projective semi- symmetric connection is represented by (4) － 8 － Some Properties of the Projective-Conformal Semi-Symmetric Connection in a Riemannian… where is a component of the 1-form [1, 4]. In a Riemannian manifold the projective-conformal semi-symmetric connection is the connection satisfying , and that is a semi-symmetric connection projectively and con- formally equivalent to Levi-Civita connection . Therefore its connection coefficient is (5) In this case from (3) and (4), Remark. If , then . connection is the Levi-Civita connection itself [5]. . Hence from (5) the projective-conformal symmetric 1. Properties of the Projective Conformal Semi-symmetric Connection Definition 1 A connection that is projectively and conformally equivalent to the Levi- Civita connection in a Riemannian manifold is called a projective conformal semi-symmetric connection. By (5) the connection coefficient of the projective conformal semi-symmetric connec- tion is or . Hence the projective conformal semi-symmetric connection is a semi-symmetric non- metric connection satisfying the equation (6) for the conformal transformation (2) of the metric. Theorem 1. In a Riemannian manifold the projective conformal semi-symmetric connection has a curvature copy of the Levi-Civita connection Proof Using (5), the curvature tensor of the projective conformal semi-symmetric connection is (7) where is the curvature tensor of the Levi-Civita connection . By , . Hence . Definition 2 When two different connections have the same connection components, we say that each connection is an equivalent of the other. Theorem 2 In a Riemannian manifold the conformal semi-symmetric connection satisfying the equation (8) for the conformal transformation (2) is  an equivalent to the projective conformal semi- symmetric connection . － 9 － Journal of Kim Il Sung University (Natural Science) No. 6 Juche103(2014) Proof The connection coefficient of the conformal semi-symmetric connection satisfy- ing (8) is In comparison with (5), is an equivalent to . . Theorem 3 If the tangent vectors of the geodesics for the Levi-Civita connection are and the tangent vectors of the geodesics for the projective conformal semi-symmetric con- nection are , then where . (9) Proof The geodesics of the connection are given in a local coordinate system by (10) where  is an affine parameter. And the geodesics of the connection coordinate system by are given in a local (11) where is an affine parameter. On one hand substituting these expressions into (11) where . Using and expression (10) . Hence . If , then . Consequently (12) namely Hence by theorem 2 and expressions (1) and (2) － 10 － Some Properties of the Projective-Conformal Semi-Symmetric Connection in a Riemannian… 2. The Variation of the Geodesics according to the Projective Conformal Semi- Symmetric Connection Now we consider the variation of the geodesics according to the projective conformal . This becomes a variational problem of the geodesics according  defined as expression (8) by theorem 2 in a semi-symmetric connection to the conformal semi-symmetric connection Riemannian manifold. Let be a differentiable path and Let the differentiable mapping be a variety satisfying in a Riemannian manifold.  for . . Let be the proper variety satisfying The projective conformal semi-symmetric connection is the connection satisfying the for , where is the true form. The conformal semi-symmetric connection equating with this connection is the connection satisfying the equation (13) (14) where . In a Riemannian manifold the length of a variety of the path is (15) By theorem 3, if is a geodesic according to , then and by expres- and is a tangent vector of variety . . Theorem 4. Let semi-symmetric connection, be a geodesic according to the projective conformal be the proper variety and be . If satisfies the conditions , , then (16) (17) equation where sion (8) where and Proof First we will consider . By expression (15), － 11 － Journal of Kim Il Sung University (Natural Science) No. 6 Juche103(2014) From and expression (14) Hence from , By the assumption of the theorem, and . Thus Hence (16) is proved. Next we will consider . Using expression (18) From theorem 2, then then Using the assumption of the theorem, (20) And Using the assumption of the theorem (21) － 12 － . .    (18) . (19) and from . Some Properties of the Projective-Conformal Semi-Symmetric Connection in a Riemannian… And Based on the assumption of the theorem And by the assumption of the theorem (22) (23) Substituting expressions (20), (21), (22) and (23) for (19), we obtain expression (17). Theorem 4 shows that the geodesics according to the projective conformal semi-symmetric is a path of minimum length, if the conjugate point is not in its inner part. connection  References  [1] Journal of Kim Il Sung University(Natural Science), 2, 2, 3, Juche102(2013). [2] T. Kurose; Interdisciplinary Information Science, 8, 1, 89, 2002. [3] P. Zhao; International Mathematical Form, 7, 341, 2008. [4] Zhao Pei Biao et al.; Chinese Quarterly Journal of Mathematics, 17, 4, 49, 2001. [5] A. P. Norden; Spaces with Affine Connection, Nauka, 2～231, 1976. [6] S. B. Edgar; Class. Quantum. Grav., 10, 2545, 1993. [7] F. Critchley et al.; Journal of Statistical Planning and Inference, 102, 229, 2002. － 13 －