김일성종합대학학보 (자연과학) JOURNAL OF KIM IL SUNG UNIVERSITY (NATURAL SCIENCE) 주체103(2014)년 제60권 제6호 Vol. 60 No. 6  JUCHE 103(2014). Excluded Volume Effect of Dipole Moment of Water Molecule on Electric Double Layer In previous work [1 － 3] electrostatic properties of an electric double layer formed near a charged surface were studied by using a lattice statistical mechanical method. Within this approach, each particle in the solution occupies only one cell of a lattice with a proper lattice constant. For analytical simplicity, it is assumed that water molecules and ions are of the same size. In this paper, we study properties of an electric double layer close to a plate charged sur- face by considering both water dipole moments and size effects of ions and water molecules. The total free energy of the electrolyte solution can be written as follows. [1] Sin Jun Sik ,   (1) where is the reduced electrostatic potential, is the volume element and the area of the charged surface with thickness . The first term in Eq. (1) is the energy of the electrostatic field and the second one is the free energy contribution of the pos- itive and negative ions. The third one is the orientational contribution of water dipole mo- ments to the free energy.  are the number densities of counterions and coions,  is the number density of water molecules in the bulk solution. The last term respectively. and represents the constraint for orientation of the water dipoles. In thermodynamic equilibrium, the number densities of ions and water molecules and the electrostatic potential near the charged surface are obtained by following expressions [1, 3]. (1) (2) (3) The electrostatic potential can be determined by the modified Poisson-Boltzmann equation. － 54 － Excluded Volume Effect of Dipole Moment of Water Molecule on Electric Double Layer (4) (5) (6) The boundary condition at the charged surface is the below expression. Since far away from the charged surface electric field strength vanishes, .  and the temperature of the solution is . We solve the Poisson-Boltzmann equation by The dipole moment of a water molecule is . The size of a cell is using the forth-order Runge-Kutta method. The water dipole moments in the close vicinity of the charged surface are oriented to- wards the charged surface, whereas far away from the charged surface all orientations of wa- ter dipoles are equally probable. As pointed out by Gongadze [3], due to the accumulation of counterions and the deple- tion of water molecules near the charged surface, the dielectric permittivity in the vicinity of the charged surface may be substantially changed. We consider how the decrease of the per- mittivity of electrolyte affects electric double layer capacitance. For the surface charge density the relative number density of water molecules close to the charged surface is shown in Fig.1. The number density of water mole- cules first decreases with the increasing distance from the charged surface and reaches a min- imum. It then increases and reaches a plateau value. Fig. 2. shows the dependence of the surface charge density of the charged surface on the plate potential difference. Fig. 1. The relative number density of water molecules versus the distance from the charged surface Fig. 2. The surface charge density of the charged surface versus the potential difference 1 and 2 stand for the case of the costant permittivity and the case of considering the excluded volume effect of water dipoles respectively － 55 － Journal of Kim Il Sung University (Natural Science) No. 6 Juche103(2014) As shown in Fig. 2, in the case of water with constant permittivity the surface charge density of the charged surface first rapidly increases with increasing plate potential difference, whereas in the case when water dipole moments are considered the surface charge density is slowly in- creased. The differential capacitance curve versus plate po- tential difference is depicted in Fig. 3. As shown in Fig. 3, a characteristic humped shape of the double-layer capacitance curve exists for the two cases and in the case when water dipole moments are considered the magnitude and position of the maximum in the differential capacitance are smaller than the cor- responding ones in the case of considering the orienta- tional ordering of water dipole moments, respectively. Our results are in agreement with the experimental data on NaF electrolyte [4]. Fig. 3. The differential capacitance ver- sus the plate potential difference 1 and 2 stand for the case of the constant permittivity of water and the case of con- sidering the excluded volume effect of water dipoles. Conclusion  To conclude, we have found that in the case when the excluded volume effect of water dipole moments is considered, the double-layer capacitance and the surface charge density of charged surface become smaller than the corresponding ones in the case when dipole mo- ments of water molecules aren’t considered respectively. References [1] Ales Iglic et al.; Bioelectrochemistry, 79, 223, 2010. [2] Marko Popovic et al.; Physical Review, E 88, 022302, 2013. [3] Ekaterina Gongadze et al.; Gen. Physiol. Biophys., 32, 143, 2013. [4] D. C. Grahame; J. Am. Chem. Soc, 76, 4819, 1954. － 56 －