김일성종합대학학보 (자연과학) JOURNAL OF KIM IL SUNG UNIVERSITY (NATURAL SCIENCE) 주체103(2014)년 제60권 제6호 Vol. 60 No. 6  JUCHE 103(2014). Real-Time Global Satellite Imagery Map Service by MapObject Han Nam Chol, Pak Jong Ho and Pang Chol MapObject is commonly used as a tool for developing GIS. However, MapObject 2.0 cannot manage and serve a large amount of real-time satellite imagery map. Satellite imagery map service is a form of geographical information service to show satel- lite image of any region on the Earth. MapObject 2.0 adds satellite images to the theme layer, which makes it difficult to man- age the bulks of global satellite images. When there are too many pictures, the memory is overloaded and the images cannot be displayed promptly. We introduced a new method of loading the satellite imagery maps – displaying the sat- ellite images and connecting to the satellite imagery database. The UML composition schema of the class for loading and adding satellite imagery is The function of GImageRender is to get the satellite image from the satellite imagery da- shown in Fig. 1. tabase and display it. The display function that is integrated in MapObject 2.0 can, of course, show the satellite images; however, rendering is not prompt enough. Therefore, in order to make rendering faster, we have introduced the method of loading the satellite images required by the memory. ImageMap class inherited the Map class of MapObject and can be connected with MySQL databases. (Fig. 2) Fig 1. UML schema of the class for adding imagery Fig 2. The composition of real-time satellite imagery service As in Fig 2, the user sends request for a satellite image to the server and downloads the image from the satellite imagery database. － 114 － Real-Time Global Satellite Imagery Map Service by MapObject Satellite image maps are stored in the database in different layers and the data structure is oriented to making it convenient for the users to search the data. The satellite imagery maps are converted into files with *.jpg extension and stored in the MySQL databases. The satellite images for real estate management are stored in Layer 18 and its resolution is more than 25cm. These image files are large in size and they are compressed with JPEG compression methods before submission by network. Compression is done by using the wave- let transformation method. The compressed image is converted into the original satellite image file while being pro- cessed and then submitted to the user. Fig. 3 shows the geographical representation by real-time satellite imagery service. Fig. 3. Example of the real-time satellite imagery map service With increased display speed, this method makes it possible to realize the real-time global satellite imagery map service. Conclusion  This method can be applied to GIS applications.  References [1] 강영호; 지리정보체계, , 1～220, 주체99(2010). [2] Ri Qiang Zhang et al.; Computer & Geosciences, 31, 343, 2005. [3] R. K. Pace; International Journal of Forecasting, 16, 229, 2000. － 115 －