Understanding of modes of encouragement An Myong Ok Faculty of Philosophy Supreme Leader Kim Jong Un said as follows: “All Party organizations should mobilize organizations and the masses and motivate them ideologically by giving definite precedence to political work, and in this way find satisfactory solutions to the problems arising in the building of powerful socialist country.” For building a thriving socialist nation with the might of self-reliance and self-development, officials who are the commanding personnel of revolution, should call on the people to fulfil the revolutionary tasks. In doing this, it is important to utilize encouragement. Encouragement is a process of motivating people to do a certain thing. Basically, motive indicates the reason that makes somebody do something. From the psychological viewpoint, it means the mental state which makes and drives man‘s behavior. Man‘s behavior does not automatically go but only by the psychology of man. Therefore, the mental state of man determines the behavior of man. There are several types of psychology to influence man‘s behavior. Some types of psychology drive man‘s behavior and some other types ensure the process of creation. Motive is the mental state which ensures the whole process of man‘s behavior from start to finish. Only under the action of motive, can man‘s creative ability display itself. Man‘s ability to do something is a practical guarantee of the process, and action is done with the ability. However, it does not automatically display, but only by a motive. Motive is an internal drive, psychological factor to urge man to do something. Encouragement is the process of producing a motive for doing something and making people try the best for achieving goals. Encouragement is always done in a certain mode. There are two modes of encouragement; external encouragement and internal encouragement. External encouragement generates a motive by giving a stimulus for realizing a demand of a man. Everything which human does is aimed for realizing their demands. They are realized by producing and enjoying something. Therefore, when people meet some phenomena which are considered to contribute to realizing their demands, they should automatically produce a motive for gaining their goals. If a student who wants to study is given a new book, for example, he will get a motive for reading it and in turn he will do the reading. External encouragement is done through political and moral incentives and material incentives. Political and moral incentives and material incentives drive human actively to doing something by realizing their ideological and material demands. Political and moral incentives drive people to having a motive and turning out for fulfilling their revolutionary tasks by realizing their ideological demands. Ideological life of a man goes on in a variety of ways and man should have a demand for it. The demand includes one for having and shining the socio-political life with the social group, one for － 43 － displaying the dignity and honor as a social being, one for doing more things for society and group with his own ability, etc. Today Korean people, the people living in the era of Juche who are well educated in the bosom of the Workers‘ Party of Korea, have lofty, beautiful ideological demands such as one for having Supreme Leader Kim Jong Un as our great fatherly leader, staying loyal to his leadership and building a thriving socialist nation on this land without fail by completing the Juche cause of revolution. Political and moral incentives are given through evaluating people‘s behavior politically such as awarding orders to people who have achieved successes in fulfilling revolutionary tasks, giving public privilege to merited people, etc. If people are given political and moral incentives, they are determined to carry out things actively. Korean people work miracles and innovation with great delight and belief in victory when they are given thanks and good assessment from President Kim Il Sung and Chairman Kim Jong Il and Supreme Leader Kim Jong Un. This is just because they have a strong demand for work faithfully as led by the great leaders and the respected Marshal. The Korean people regard staying loyal to their leadership as the highest life goal and devote everything to its realization, and consider it to be their pride and happiness. Material incentives make a human have a motive for doing something. A human has a demand on material and tries to realize it. Only when this demand is realized, can he live healthily and behave properly. The human body is the basis of survival and development as a social being. Therefore, healthy body should ensure the ideological development and better social life of humans. In this sense, supply service is called political work and material incentives are of great significant in calling upon people to turn out for carrying out revolutionary tasks. Man‘s demand on material is realized by creating a variety of means of material life and conditions. Material incentives are to realize people‘s material demands by paying prize money, improving living conditions, etc. For good external encouragement, political and moral incentives and material incentives should be combined properly. Priority should be placed on political and moral incentives as the ideological demand is more important and fundamental. For proper practice of external encouragement, some problems should be solved. First of all, people‘s behavior should be evaluated accurately with correct discrimination between positive and negative ones. External encouragement is given efficiently on the basis of accurate evaluation of people‘s behavior. Every human desires their behavior to be fairly evaluated, and if it is done in a such way, they feel satisfied and take active part in concerned work. If external encouragement is wrongly practiced, people‘s passion for work decreases. In this case, people would pay attention to catching a chance for receiving good evaluation rather than working faithfully. Most important, the socialist principle of distribution should be properly applied. It is the principle demanding the distribution is administered according to how much people produce, so it ensures fair evaluation on the result of people‘s work. Working people can display greater passion for working and turn out actively for carrying out their revolutionary tasks when their labor is fairly evaluated according to the quality and quantity of their work. － 44 － Secondly, external encouragement should be given timely and adequately. The effect of external encouragement will soon show up clearly. As soon as people are given political and moral incentives and material incentives, they begin to do something. A human feels satisfied when his demand is realized, and works toward doing things which satisfy him. However, the effect of external encouragement does not last long enough. Political and moral incentives and material incentives become less effective as time goes by. Therefore, external encouragement should be given properly and repeatedly on necessary occasions. Thirdly, external encouragement should be given according to the specific demand and idiosyncrasy of the subject. People accept the same incentives in a varied way according to their demand and idiosyncrasy, which influences their behavior differently. External encouragement should be given according to the demand of the subject. Political and moral incentives and material incentives can have significance only when people‘s demand is realized. If they contributed little to the realization of the demand, encouragement would fail. Therefore, external encouragement should be given when it is clear what the subject demands. In the 8th Conference of Ideological Workers of the Workers‘ Party of Korea, Supreme Leader Kim Jong Un said that, like telling thirsty people about the location of a well, attention should be paid to propagandizing what people wish to know or listen to on the basis of the Party policy. This means that ideological work should be done according to the demand of a human. As the human life goes in various ways, people‘s demands are also varied. Each demand works equally, so the strongest one works best and human behaves with it. Therefore, external encouragement should be given on the condition that what people wish so strongly is clear. In other words, knowing well which people demand more, ideological demand or material demand, external encouragement should be given properly. For people who are in agony with mental suffering, solution should be found to solve their problems, and for people who have trouble with material life, solution should be found to their living. This ensures the good effectiveness of encouragement. Also external encouragement should be given according to the idiosyncrasy of the subject. No man is alike and everyone has their own idiosyncratic characters. People respond to the same incentives differently according to their personality. Therefore, when considering people‘s personality, external encouragement will become more effective. In general, for example, praise serves as pleasing people and encouraging them to do something, but it does not work equally on every person. Extroverts like being praised in public, but introverts prefer being praised personally and privately. Internal encouragement makes people have an active motive by raising the level of people‘s ideological consciousness. A motive for an action occurs according to the demand of a human for a concerned action. For example, for a man who has a strong desire for finishing this task surely, a motive for doing it occurs and he starts to do it. Higher demand generates higher motive, which ensures active practice. Therefore, the level of demand should be raised for active motive. Human‘s ideology reflects his demand. Human, as a conscious being, has ideology, a consciousness reflecting the demand, and behaves under the control of ideology. － 45 － Therefore, for creating a loftier and more active motive by heightening the level of people‘s demand, the level of their ideology and consciousness should be raised higher. Internal encouragement generates the motive for doing things by raising the level of people‘s ideology and consciousness. The revolutionary idea, lines and policies of our Party reflect the demand and aspiration of the popular masses, and the process in which people equip themselves with them is just the process of raising the level of their ideology and consciousness, which is the process of internal encouragement. Only when ideological education is efficiently done for equipping people with the revolutionary idea and lines and policies of our party, can all the people be encouraged to turn out for carrying out the Party policies actively and display their passion to the greatest extent. Today our country is performing miracles every moment under the wise leadership of Supreme Leader Kim Jong Un, despite the cruel sanctions and anti-republic movements of the U.S imperialists and other hostile forces. This is the valuable result of the ideology and spirit of the Korean people who are thoroughly equipped with the revolutionary idea of our Party. Internal encouragement for raising the level of people‘s ideology and consciousness higher is done through ideological education. Therefore, it should be done according to their readiness and personality. First, ideological education should be done according to people‘s readiness. The level and readiness of people, the subject of ideological education are different. This is clearly shown by the level of ideology and knowledge. There are some with ideological faithfulness and high intelligence, and some others with less of them. Therefore, the readiness influences ideological education directly. Man accepts things as much as they know. There should be difference in accepting idea and equipping themselves with it according to their level and readiness. Efficient ideological education according to the level and readiness of people ensures that people accept the idea correctly as their own. Second, ideological education should be done according to people‘s idiosyncrasy. Every man has his own peculiar character, which influences ideological education. The process of accepting the same idea can go differently according to the personality. For example, quick-minded people can accept ideas at high speed, while slow-minded people can do it at lower speed. Therefore, efficiency can be ensured only when ideological education is done according to the personality. As above mentioned, encouraging people to carry out revolutionary tasks is done externally and internally. Of the two modes, internal encouragement is of greater significance. Man‘s behavior is controlled by his ideology and whether external stimuli work as encouraging factors or not is decided by ideology. Therefore, in encouraging people, internal encouragement for raising the level of people‘s ideology should be prioritized and ideological education should be given priority over every other work. Also, by successfully realizing the demand of people through external encouragement, revolutionary passion and creative activeness should be fully displayed in carrying out people‘s tasks. All officials should play a good role in calling on people to turn out for building a thriving socialist nation by combining external and internal modes of encouragement according to the characteristics of the subject and the given tasks. Keywords: encouragement, ideological education, psychology － 46 －