Analysis on the research of Korean tho(particle) and the effective ways of acquiring thoes by means of serial thoes Yang Ok Ju Faculty of Korean Language and Literature The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il said as follows. “Language plays a very important role in people's everyday life.” (―Kim Jong Il Selected Works‖ It is very important to study on the realistic ways that can help foreigners correctly understand both Korean vocabularies and thoes abundant in our beautiful and copious language as a foreign language. In our language it is difficult to have a profound understanding of vocabularies, but much more Vol.1, p.85) difficult for thoes. It is especially difficult for those who study Korean language as a foreign language. Study on thoes of our language has been done in several aspects before. Yet many problems still remain unsolved due to the equivocality of thoes of our language. This article analyzes the methods of studying on thoes taken before and explains serial thoes is one of the effective ways of acquiring thoes of our language. Study on thoes of our language has been done mainly in two aspects: semantic-functional aspect and semantic-structural aspect. historical analysis. One of the methods of studying thoes in semantic-functional aspect is to study them based on the The method of studying the meaning of thoes based on the historical analysis is to study each and every tho by its historical origin and analyze particularly the original meaning and equivocal meanings derived later based on the specific historical data so that it is good to define the original and derivative meanings in details. However, this method costs much time and labor practically, for it requires lots of historical data and survey on phenomena corresponding to its own law of change and development. Another method of studying on thoes in semantic-functional aspect is to study their meanings in the present point of view. Study on thoes in the present point of view put the main stress on the meanings of them by compiling the various meanings of each tho in details. In other words, it enabled one to analyze the meaning of each tho inclusively by making detailed survey and control on equivocal cases of each tho. Currently in grammar books are arraying the meanings that thoes represent in this way. Here in this way are arraying the overall meanings of each tho. However, it gives main stress on the meanings that are used mainly and mentioned little on those used rarely so that those meanings that are used passively are abbreviated. The other method of studying on thoes in semantic-functional aspect is to study them on the basis of their frequency. － 51 － The method of studying on thoes in aspect of usage is to make a detailed survey and control on the meanings that each tho represent and give a statistical result. This method is said to be practical compared to the one that studies on thoes by historical way. However, it requires much quantity of analysis in practice to survey lots of sentences and define the number of usage, though it ensures the certainty. Therefore this method is not used widely since it doesn‘t serve the utilitarianism, though it serves scientific quality. The other method of studying on thoes in semantic-functional aspect is to study on them in synonymous aspect. The method of studying on the meanings of thoes in synonymous aspect is to summarize the thoes that have same or similar meanings in sentences and analyze them by their common things and different things. In this method explain the same cases and difference in different cases based on a certain standard because it is difficult to say those thoes that are analyzed in synonymous aspect all have same meanings and same functions. Study on thoes in semantic-structural aspect is to analyze on the level of solidity of two or more thoes attached to one word in various aspects such as questioning whether they are simple or complex thoes (if complex, whether primary complex or secondary complex), whether they are combined or overlapping thoes. By this method they studied on thoes synchronically and diachronically, especially more studies have been taken synchronically than diachronically. These methods contributed a lot to the acquisition of thoes of Korean as a foreign language in several stages by their own roles. To set forth the higher request for acquisition of Korean as a foreign language and implement it practically, more various methods are required to increase the effectiveness of acquisition of thoes. Serial thoes, which is one of the ways to increase the effectiveness of acquisition of thoes of Korean as a foreign language, are the structural aspect of study on thoes and will help in a certain measure with the correct use of Korean in high level. Till now studies on thoes have been done in various ways of semantic-structural aspect so that they contributed to the acquisition of thoes for foreigners to a certain degree. However, there are plenty of thoes in Korean and various meanings of them so that understanding on the meanings of them, when various thoes are used together, still remains as difficult problem for foreigners. Thus serial thoes are set forth and effectiveness of acquisition of thoes by them is mentioned below. Serial thoes are combination of thoes which are arranged centered on a tho among those attached to the stem of a word. Since they include combined thoes and some complex thoes, the range of combination in serial thoes are said to be wide. Therefore, to understand the meaning of thoes, the aspects of solidity and structure have to be considered altogether. The study on Korean language today focuses on many serial thoes such as positional thoes-―ryo, da, za, ra, gho, nen, nh, rh, den‖,etc-and non-positional thoes-―de, ghi, ri, di‖, etc. Acquisition of thoes by serial thoes, first of all, enables one to understand the meaning of one tho and then lots of thoes combined to it in a series of same meaning. For example, serial thoes of ―ra‖ enables one to summarize all the thoes around the ending tho ―ra‖ － 52 － and analyze them in a series. Grammatical particles that follow the ending tho ―ra‖ include ―b-nida, b-nikka, ouneh, n-da, zi, ziman, nenhguna, nende, nenhgun, nenhguman, nenhguryo, nenhga, ni, nikka, b-dida, b-dikka, dehra, dehgun, dehguman, dehnia, dehni, denhga, n-daneh, gho, nendet, ghena, ghedon, ghenl, gheden, denzi, mionsho, mion, ghosho, gillae, n-zek, ya, ghie, neni, nhuna, nenhgagho, nenhghunyo, nendesho, nendesi‖, etc and those that follow ―ra‖ preceded by ―de, ri, noh‖ include ―derapnida, derapnikka, deraoh, deranda, derae, deranenhguna, deranenhgun, deranenhguman, deranenhguryo, deranenhga, derana, derani, derapdida, derapnikka, deradeh, deradehgun, deragho, deranende, deraziman, deramionsho, deraghie, deramion, derazi, deranen, deraden, rirapnida, rirapnikka, riraoh, riraneh, riranda, riranenhguna, riranenhgun, rirana, rirani, rirapdida, rirapdikka, riradehgun, riradenhga, riradehnia, riragho, riranende, riraziman, riramionsho, riraghie, riranzek, riradehni, riranen, riradehra, nohrapnida, nohrapnikka, nohraoh, nohraneh, nohranda, nohrae, nohranenhguna, nohranenhgun, nohranenhguryo, nohrana, nohrapdida, nohrapdikka, nohradehra, nohradeh, nohradehgun, nohradenhga, nohradehnia, nohramionsho, nohraghie‖, etc. As above, thoes that belong to the serial thoes of ―ra‖ can be understood by summarizing those thoes in front and back of ―ra‖ in a series at a time. Acquisition of thoes by serial thoes, second of all, enables expressions more copiously and finely in sentences because it can express finer and more copious meaning than simple thoes. This can be said to be one of the important means to increase the effect of expression of sentence description. Thoes that belong to the serial thoes of ―ra‖ hold the almost same meaning as of ―ra‖ and are combined with other thoes to represent more specific and finer grammatical meanings so that they contribute to a certain extent to the making of more copious expressions in sentences compared to simple thoes. The same goes for other serial thoes, generally. Since serial thoes are combined in more various ways than simple or complex thoes they can express the grammatical meanings in more details centering on one serial tho. For example, ―derabnida‖, which is serial thoes of ―ra‖ formed by a combination of ―de‖, ―ra‖ and ―b-nida‖, represents the meaning of polite report when the reporter thinks back on the contents he/she heard earlier and delivers to the other person in a courteous way. ―Ryonenhgarhl‖, one of the serial thoes of ―ryo‖ also represents the meanings of ―ryo‖, ―nenhga‖ and ―rhl‖ as they are and at the same time the copious and specific meaning in a sentence by one serial tho. Example: Jongmal tongmuga gurotge haryonoongarhl ttobotjiman jongsi pyohyonoon haji antergoonyo. (I sounded you as to whether you would really do that, but after all you didn‘t show yourself.) Acquisition of thoes by serial thoes, third of all, enables one to select the meaning he/she will represent correctly by forming abundant system of combinations of many thoes. In aspect of combination, complex thoes are formed by a combination of two more thoes to represent one solid grammatical meaning, besides, combined thoes are formed by two or more thoes yet represent their meanings as they are due to the fact that the solidity of combination is weak. Serial thoes are one side of combined thoes but when two or more thoes combine together, the － 53 － solidity of grammatical meaning is strong or weak according to different cases so that they form the peculiar system of tho formation. Particularly serial thoes make quite possible to combine two, three, four or more thoes around on tho. For example, various serial thoes represent abundant grammatical meanings as in serial thoes of (book)yiradeghuna, ―ra‖-―(eat)ohsoraghiboda, (come)riradenhgayo‖-and serial thoes of ―ryo‖-―(go)ryonenghuryo, (go)ryonendesi‖-and so on. (come)sideraghedenyo, (do)deramionya, Such serial thoes in our language will help high level of acquisition of thoes for their abundance of combinations and delicacy of grammatical meanings. We have to carry out a profound study on serial thoes so that the foreigners could acquire our beautiful and copious language more correctly. Keywords: Korean language, grammar, particle － 54 －