The Main Features of the Natural Environment Favourable to Mankind Jong Ung Faculty of Philosophy The attitude of people towards the natural environment depends on what to be considered as the main features of the natural environment favourable to mankind. As man is an independent and creative social being, main features of the natural environment favourable to mankind lies in its essentiality to the independent and creative life of man. The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il said; “Nature is the object of man‟s labour and also is the material source of his life. Society is a community where people live and conduct activities. Natural environments and social conditions have a great effect on human activity.” (―On the Juche Idea‖ p, 11) First of all, the natural environment favourable to mankind includes the one with a value as the source of the social wealth. Social wealth, which is essential to the independent and creative life of man, includes the material and cultural means socially created and utilized. These means exist in either material or ideological forms. Those in material forms are derived from nature. Man utilizes and continuously transforms nature to create wealth for his living. The natural environment as the source of the social wealth includes natural resources and geographical conditions. The natural environment includes the natural resources. Social wealth in material forms necessary for the man‘s independent and creative life is created by exploiting and utilizing the natural resources. In broad terms, resources include human resources and material resources but it refers to natural resources in general terms. Natural resources consist of mineral ore, soil, water, atmosphere, plants, animals, etc. The important natural resources are energy resources, mineral resources, and animals and plants. The energy resources available to man depend on the socioeconomic conditions and the development of the science and technology of the time, thus changing from time to time in history. The concept of the energy resources came to be recognized with the discovery and the utilization of coal, especially the invention of the steam engine and the Industrial Revolution. Coal, together with water, was the largest source of energy available to man at that time. The emergence of electricity multiplied the value of water and coal as energy source. Electricity is the most important energy made by man and it made possible the mental and technical development in a short time as never had been for thousands of years. However, the energy resources such as coal, petroleum and natural gas are limitless and they also cause air pollution. This leads man to find renewable energy resources – hydrogen and － 64 － solar power. Hydrogen is environmentally friendly and inexhaustible and we can get it from water. The wide use of hydrogen energy will bring dramatic change in the structure of production and consumption. It is also considered to build a mega-size solar power station on the earth orbit or other planet orbit and transmit the electricity to the earth using microwave. Mineral resources are also important. In the early days of human history, man derived material wealth from the earth surface. As people became more aware of nature, they found the mineral resource underground and developed metal processing, chemical production and ceramic industry. At present, the development of the geological survey enables the discovery of many kinds of new minerals and the available mineral resources increase in quantity and improve in quality. The further study on the mineral ore made the once-useless minerals valuable for the economic development. Animals and plants are also the important part of the source of the social wealth. Hunting was the initial means of life for the existence of man and plants contribute to the environment of human life as a The natural environment includes geographical conditions such as land, forest, rivers, the ocean source of oxygen. and the atmosphere. The land is necessary for the production of food and the raw material for the light industry. It is also the main arena of human life and production and the space for the production power distribution. Forest provides timber and the raw materials for fabrics, paper, oil, food and so on. It reserves water, prevents flood and drought, protects soil and also contributes to the agriculture, fruit farming, sericulture, stockbreeding and bee-farming. Ocean is also the material source of social wealth. Man is actively utilizing the ocean to create social wealth, by exploiting marine life and mineral resources, hydraulic resources and energy resources of the ocean. Thus, the natural environment including natural resources and geographical conditions is the source of social wealth which is important for the independent and creative life of man, and it is one of the main features of the natural environment favourable to mankind. Next, the natural environment favourable to mankind includes the one that gives people the lofty and beautiful feelings. Man needs to lead a beautiful and civilized life. The lofty and beautiful feelings give man happiness and pride as an independent and creative social being and let him make an untiring and enthusiastic effort to understand the world and transform it to his independent needs. These ever-increasing needs are satisfied with the life full of cultured emotions and feelings. Thus, the natural environment which contributes to man‘s life full of lofty and beautiful feelings is favourable to mankind. First, the natural environment which gives people the lofty and beautiful feelings influences man to have sound ideological and moral qualities. These qualities are formed not only by the social education － 65 － but also by the experience of the righteous and just social phenomena. All the social phenomena happen in a certain geographical condition and the traces of people struggling for the truth and justice are felt through the natural environment. The language, complexion and course of activities have a certain degree of similarity to the expression of the natural phenomena (e.g. sound, color and shape), so the righteous and just social phenomena are associated with natural environment. For instance, the natural environment of the revolutionary sites of our country helps visitors understand the revolutionary activities of the great leaders on the spot, giving them a great influence. The social phenomena associated with natural environment give people the aspiration for the truth and justice and the determination to fight for them. Thus, various shape, color and sound of the natural environment gives people the lofty and beautiful feelings by making them excited, relaxed, imaginative or determined. The beauties of nature such as fresh wind, warm sunlight, magnificent mountains and clear rivers, and beautiful scenic places are the material resource necessary for man‘s mental life and social welfare. In the natural environment people feel happiness and joy, cherish desire and ambition, and develop affection for their homeland. The natural environment serves for man as long as it maintains its beauty. Second, the natural environment which gives people the lofty and beautiful feelings assures man of his endless creative ingenuity and ability. The natural environment gives people different feelings through various shape, color and sound. Sometimes nature causes serious damage to man‘s life, but man fosters his creative ingenuity and ability throughout history to bring it under control creative ingenuity and ability. The natural environment also helps him feel his creative ingenuity and ability. Colorful rainbow, beautiful frostwork, fantastic rocks and other natural things that are not the creation of human efforts also gives people deep emotion as they remind them of the hope and aspiration, wisdom and talents and will of people. The natural environment that is worth a tourist resort helps us to cherish noble spirit and revolutionary will, to realize the endless creative wisdom and power of people and to lead a rich spiritual life. Natural environment that serves as tourist resorts includes the places where we can do several tourist activities like sightseeing, enjoying holidays and playing sports games, the scenic spots, sanatorium places, the places of unique natural phenomena and academic significance and the places for the leisure activities and providing knowledge. In our country, the educational tourism such as expeditions and sightseeing and the health tourism such as trip of recreation and recuperation and hiking are popular and they are all at state expense. Finally, the natural environment favourable to mankind includes the one that contributes to the people‘s health. To help people live long in good health, it is important to provide them with favourable － 66 － environment for their health as well as to improve the public health services. It includes the environment favourable for their physical training, proper nourishment and medical treatment. Its important elements are atmosphere, water, soil and ecosystem. Clear air and water, uncontaminated soil and environment contribute to the realization of people‘s desire to live long in good health. Therefore the natural environment favorable for mankind is the one with a value as the source of the social wealth, the one that gives people the lofty and beautiful feelings and the one that contributes to the people‘s health. Keywords: mankind, natural environment, social wealth － 67 －