The Relationship of the Inheritance between Kojoson, Koguryo and Koryo According to the Korean Section of “Mingshi”(Chinese History of Ming Dynasty) Choe Yon Ju The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il said as follows. “There are still many questions regarding the history of our country, questions that need scientific solutions.” (“KIM JONG IL SELECTED WORKS” Vol.1 P. 30) It is very important in the study of history to give our new generations the right recognition by assessing the historical facts rightly. The book “Mingshi (Chinese history of Ming Dynasty)” was written by Zhangzhengyu who was a feudal official and historian of Qing Dynasty and it showed the history of the Ming Dynasty. This is the valuable database which reflects the history of nearly 300 years of Ming Dynasty. This consists of total 336 volumes(4 catalogues include) and the data regarding Korea is written in the section of the foreign countries. Since this dynasty existed from 1368 to 1644, the Korean section of “Mingshi” contains some of the data concerning Koryo and Feudal Joson Dynasty, and it also contains some of the data concerning Koguryo. The essay aimes to show that Kojoson, Koguryo and Koryo had been established by the Korean nation and Koguryo and Koryo had inherited Ancient Joson via the study on the Korean section of the “Mingshi”. What the most important in this section is the relationship of the inheritance between Koguryo and Koryo. We can see that Koryo had inherited Koguryo, first of all, from the name of Koguryo. The Korean section of the “Mingshi (Chinese history of Ming Dynasty)” contains the following content: “This country was called Joson before the Han Dynasty was established.… At the end of Han Dynasty, the Kos of Puyo occupied this area. He changed the name of the country into Koryo or Koguryo. He chose his capital in Pyongyang.(“volume 320, Biographies 208, Foreign Countries 1, Korea”) From the analysis of this datum, we can induce some conclusions. First, we can suppose that Koguryo called his name first and simplified it Koryo.  In fact, in the history books regarding Koguryo such as “Nanqishu(Historybook of Nanqi)”, “Zhoushu(Historybook of Zhou)”,“ Suishu(Historybook of Sui)”, “Beishi(Historybook of Northern Dynasties)”,“Jiutangshu(Old Historybook of Tang Dynasty)”,“Xintangshu(New Historybook of Tang Dynasty)”,“Jiuwudashi(Old Historybook of Five Dynasties)”, “Wudashiqi(Historical Record Five Dynasties)”, the Koguryo was named Koryo and in other books  the terms “Koguryo” and “Koryo” were used as the same time. Since the above books were published after 5th century, the above fact shows that the term “Koryo” was used more widely than the term “Koguryo” and before the 5th century the term “Koguryo”was used more widely than the term “Koryo”. － 39 － This means that the terms “Koguryo” and “Koryo” were used at the same time. Koguryo set up its name as “Koguryo” and from the beginning to the end and it used the term “Koryo” as its name. The terms “Koguryo” and “Koryo” were the name of the country with the long history of 1 000 years and so the countries which were founded later used the name “Koguryo”. “Country of Koguryo” which was founded at the beginning of 670s, “Country of Koryo” which was founded in 680s in the area of Uizu,“Koguryo(Koryo, Late Koguryo)” which was founded by Kung Ye, prove such historical facts. our country. This name of the country was well known to the world as the name Koryo-the first united state of Second, we can suppose if Koguryo used the other name besides the “Koguryo”. In the northern Puyo section of the “Samguk yusa(Memorabilia of the Three Kingdoms)”(Volume 1, Mystery 2), there is a following record, “Since Emperor Tongmyong was born in the Northern Puyo and appointed Jolbon province as its capital, he is a founder of Koguryo” and in the Koguryo section, there is a following record: “Koguryo is just Jolbon Puyo”. This datum hives us the hint that Koguryo was abled to be called Jolbon Puyo. But there is no record that the other name of Koguryo was Jolbon Puyo and in its heyday, Koguryo was occupied much larger areas than Jolbon Puyo. So, it is unreasonable to suppose that the name of Koguryo was Jolbon Puyo first and it was changed into Koryo later. So we must see that the name of Koryo is the abbreviation of Koguryo and we can see clearly the relationship of inheritance between Koguryo and Koryo from the data regarding the name of the country in the Korean section of “Chinese history of Ming Dynasty”. We can see that Koryo inherited Koguryo from the data that Wang Kon replaced Kos. In the “Mingshi(Chinese history of Ming Dynasty)”(Volume 320, biographies 208, Foreign countries 1, Korea), there is a following record; “During the Late Tang Dynasty Wang Kon replaced Koguryo”. This fact shows that Koryo founded by Wang Kon inherited Koguryo founded by Kojumong. Since Koryo inhabitants wished to inherit Koguryo which had existed for 1 000 years and regarding as their pride, they called the name of their country Koryo. We think that such wish of the Koryo inhabitants was transferred to the Chinese people and so the Korean section of “Mingshi” recorded that Wang Kon replace the Kos. Of course, it is wrong that the above data recorded that Wang Kon had founded Koryo during the Late Tang Dynasty. Because he founded Koryo during the Late Tang Dynasty, the unification of our country was in a nearly completion state. We can see that Koryo inherited Koguryo from the record that Koryo tried to unify the country. “Mingshi(Chinese history of Ming Dynasty)” records that “During the Late Tang Dynasty replaced The Kos and annexed Silla and Paekje. ” (“Mingshi(Chinese history of Ming Dynasty)”(Volume 320, biographies 208, Foreign countries 1, Korea) Inheriting Koguryo, Koryo gave priority to the unification of the country from the beginning of － 40 － the foundation and struggled actively to realize it. Wang Kon regarded Pyongyang as “Core point of the country” and “Centre to achieve the great cause” and actively accelerated the construction of Pyongyang, construction of the fortresses in the west-northern part of the country and the advance to the west-northern area and in his “10 instructions” showed that he attached weight to Pyongyang. Jengjong(2nd king of Koryo) who inherited Wang Kon accelerated the construction of palace in Pyongyang to move the capital to it. The facts that Wang Kon gave importance to Sogyong(Pyongyang) and the north-west region and Jengjong inherited the will of the first king and accelerated the building for the transfer of the capital to Soekyong were from the idea to restore to original region of Koguryo and to build up the powerful nation like Koguryo. As a result, Koryo completed the unification of the country in 936 and became the first unified state in our country. Late Silla and Late Paekje. The data showed that Koryo annexed Silla and Paekje but it is not correct. Koryo annexed the But since these countries were established in the regions of the former Silla and Paekje, it is not wrong completely that Koryo annexed Silla and Paekje. Koguryo tried to annex these regions and eventually Koryo did so. Like this, from the records in the Korean Section of “Mingshi”, we can see that Koryo inherited the policy on the unification of the 3 states that had been pushed forward by Koguryo and that Koryo was the inheriting Koguryo. Next, what important in the Korean section of “Mingshi (Chinese history of Ming Dynasty)” is the relationship of the inheritance between Puyo and Koguryo, furthermore one of Kojoson and Koguryo. Korean section of “Mingshi” recorded that Kos, an inhabitant of Puyo had occupied that region(Kojoson’s region-writer) at the end of Han dynasty. The expression “The Kos, an inhabitant of Puyo” means that the inhabitants of Puyo and Koguryo were from the same nation. We can see the data showing the relationship of the inheritance between Puyo and Koguryo not only in“Mingshi(Chinese history of Ming Dynasty)” but also in “Samgukji(History book of Three Dynasties”,“Houhanshu(Historybook of Late Han Dynasty)” “Jiutangshu(Old Historybook of Tang Dynasty)”,“Xintangshu(New Historybook of Tang Dynasty)”,“Jiuwudashi(Old Historybook of Five Dynasties)”,“Wudashiqi(Historical Record Five Dynasties)”, “Songshi(History of Song Dynasty)”,“Yuanshi(History of Yuan Dynasty)”and so on. They recorded that “Koguryo was the other kind of Puyo.”.  What is important here is the analysis of the expression “other kind”. Since the term “other kind” is the concept that has been used to show by what nation and tribe the country had been founded and so the word “other” does not indicate the meaning “different”. There are following records in the section regarding the history of Koguryo and Paekje of “Xin tangshu(New Historybook of Tang Dynasty) ”  and “ Jiutangshu(Old Historybook of Tang － 41 － Dynasty)”:“Koguryo is other kind from the Puyo”*1 and “Paekje is originally the other kind of Puyo”.*2 *1,2“Jiutangshu (Old Historybook of Tang Dynasty)”(Vol. 199 biographies 149, Palhae), “Xintangshu (New Historybook of Tang Dynasty) (Vol. 219 biographies 145, Palhae) We can see more clearly the meaning of the“Other kind”if contrasting it with the founding history of Koguryo and Paekje. The facts that “In the old times, King Jumo(King Jumong),the founder, appointed the site for the country in the north of Puyo.”,*1 “Later, Jumong was not forgiven his fault in Puyo…he ran away to the south and arrived at Jolbon,set up the capital and called the name of the country Koryo.”,*2 “Onjo family was from Koguryo and Puyo.”*3 show clearly that the Koguryo was founded by either the people or the generations who had been separated from Puyo and Paekje from Koguryo. *1 “The mausoleum of the King Kwanggaetho”(the first page)  *2 “Samguk sagi”(Vol. 23 Paekje Section, the founder king Onjo.   *3 “Samguk yusa”(Vol. 2 Mystery the 2nd)    This shows that the term “other kind” means the people of the same tribe separated from the same nation but not the different one. From such facts, the record “Koguryo is the other kind of Puyo” proves that Koguryo and Puyo were founded by the people of the same nation. We can see that Koguryo and Puyo were founded by the people of the same nation from the data in the “Houhanshi”(Chinese history of Late Han Dynasty). In the “Houhanshi”, there is a following record: “As it is reported from Dongi, (Koguryo) is said to be the other kind of Puyo. So they are the same in their language and law.”(“Houhanshi (Chinese history of Late Han Dynasty)” Volume 84, biographies 74, Koguryo) In the Houhanshi(Chinese history of Late Han Dynasty)”, it is reported that Koguryo is the other kind of Puyo so the language and the law are same. Such record shows that Koguryo and Puyo were founded by the people of the same nation.  Puyo existed as a dependency state of Kojoson and became a independent country in the middle of B.C. 15th century. The original script of “Jewangungi(A Record of poems about several kings)” described that “Tangun became a king in Korean area and Sira(Silla), Korye(Koguryo), North-South Okjo, northern part of Puyo, Ye and Maek were under his ruling. The above mentioned relationships of inheritance Puyo, Koguryo, Koryo were originated from Kojoson and Koguryo and Koryo inherited Kojoson. What is important in the Korean section of “Mingshi (Chinese history of Ming Dynasty)”is the fact that Koguryo restored the old region of Kojoson. Korean section of the “Mingshi(Chinese history of Ming Dynasty)” recorded that “The Kos, inhabitant of Puyo occupied that region(Kojoson-writer).” After the fall of Kojoson, Han Dynasty occupied that region at the north of the Amnok River but that region was returned to the Koguryo due to the active struggle of Koguryo. That time, Koguryo regarded the regain of old region of Kojoson which had been founded by the same nation as its important policy and struggled to realize it while struggling to unify 3 countries. As － 42 － a result, it accomplished the historic cause to restore the old region of Kojoson. From such fact, we can see that Koguryo inherited Kojoson even in the territorial aspect. Korean section of the “Mingshi (Chinese history of Ming Dynasty)”reflects such facts. Like this, Korean section of the “Mingshi (Chinese history of Ming Dynasty)” contains the data showing the history of Koguryo and Koryo including the relationship of the inheritance between Puyo and Koguryo, one of Koguryo and Koryo, unification of the country , the restoration of the old region of Kojoson by Koguryo and so it is very valuable in studying the history of that time. In particular, even Korean section of Mingshi(Chinese history of Ming Dynasty), the future data shows clearly that Koguryo and Koryo were originated from the Kojoson. － 43 －