Military “Treaties” Concluded between the US and South Korean Puppets are Legal Obstacles to Peace on the Korean Peninsula Sin Pun Jin The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il said as follows. “The US imperialists continue to reinforce their aggressive armed force in south Korea and at the same time escalate preparations for war against the northern half of the Republic, and perpetrate constant military provocations.”(“KIM JONG IL SELECTED WORKS” Vol. 1 P. 253) It is 70 years since the US has occupied south Korea, the half of the Korean peninsula, and put it into colonial domination. The history of domination on south Korea is the criminal history of the US who converted the whole area of south Korea into military base and violated the peace in the Korean peninsula with ceaseless reinforcement of armies and war maneuvers. So long as the US occupies south Korea militarily and continues to reinforce its armies and commit military provocations the danger of war will not disappear in the peninsula. The permanent military occupation of south Korea by US, reinforcement of armies and clamor for war maneuvers are “legally” based on the “treaties” and “agreements” with the puppet of south Korea in the field of military. The reason why the military “treaties” concluded between the US and the south Korean puppets represent legal obstacles to peace on the Korean peninsula is, first of all, because they violate peace on the peninsula by legalizing the permanent stationing of US. army in south Korea and turning of the whole region of south Korea into military base “legislatively”. The stationing of foreign armies and turning into military base is one of fundamental factors which violate independence of a country and nation and a factor of the outbreak of war. Especially, the stationing of armies and turning into military base for the purpose of aggression aggravates armament race and leads the situation to the brink of war under the cloak of “joint defense” and “mutual cooperation”. By means of the “treaties” and “agreements”, the US regulates lawfully the reinforcement of invasive force and the shipment of means of mass destruction including nuclear weapons and other military technical equipments into south Korea, thus turned it into a bridgehead for the provocation of another war. The “mutual defense treaty” between the US and south Korea not only grants the special privilege to use the whole south Korean territory as their military base but also places no restrictions on the size and limit of military forces they bring into south Korea. In the meantime, the US assured, in the “Provisional Administrative Agreement on Military and Public Security to be Enforced in the Period of Transition”, that they will “continue the armament” in the south Korean puppet army and regulated, in the “conference report”(appendix B), that they will increase the size of the south Korean puppet force in large quantities. What’s more the US by stipulating, in the US-south Korea “Agreement on economic and technical aid”, that the economic and technical aids are aimed at “achieving the supreme goal of sustaining defense” is now speeding up every technical preparations for provoking another war on the Korean peninsula. － 88 － The “Provisional Administrative Agreement on Military and Public Security to be Enforced in the Period of Transition” (24th August 1948, so called the US-south Korean “Provisional Agreement”) concluded between US and the south Korean puppet has formulated that it “deems the US has the right to control the important regions and facilities (ports, military camp, railroads, communication and airfields) deemed necessary”. This confirmed that the US imperialists could use the territory of south Korea wherever it may be and any facilities at their will in case of need to turn south Korea into military aggressive base and the south Korean puppet should serve its master US imperialists. The US imperialists has fixed “legislatively” the occupation of south Korea by US army and establishment of US military bases through US-south Korea “Agreement on Finance and Assets Transfer” (11th September 1948) and US-south Korea “ Agreement on Mutual Defense” agreed between US and the south Korean puppet regime. The US-south Korea “Agreement on Mutual Defense”, in particular, is the representative “treaty” which stipulates “legislatively” the permanent military occupation by US imperialists and the turning the whole region of south Korea into military base. The Article 1 of the US-south Korea “Agreement on Mutual Defense” described as its objective that they made agreement “to hope for the consolidation of efforts for the collective defense until the development of further comprehensive and effective regional security in the pacific region”, thus, made the long-term stationing of US imperialists in south Korea legally and permanently. The Article 4 “legalized” the turning of whole region of south Korea into aggressive military base by stipulating that the US has the right to distribute its land, naval and air forces within and around south Korea and they admit it. The Article 5 stipulated the term of the “Agreement” indefinite and made military occupation and turning into military base permanent “legislatively”. When the imperialists post their aggressive armies in the other countries through “treaty” and “agreement”, they formulate the term of stationing, number of forces and cost for the stationing regions in a formalistic way. But the US imperialists have “legalized” the long-term stationing of US army and turning of whole region of south Korea into military base by stipulating the right to distribute its land, naval and air forces in the whole territory of south Korea and its long-term occupation. US imperialists also legalized their long-term stationing through several “agreements” such as US-south Korea “Military Agreement” (24th August 1948) stipulating the right to control the regions and facilities necessary for the long-term stationing of its armies and established military bases in large areas not known in other countries in the world, thus, turning the whole territory of south Korea into their aggressive military base. The turning of whole territory of south Korea into nuclear base is also “legally” based on the US-south Korea “Agreement on Mutual Defense”. After the Korean War, the US imperialists stationed Army Corps No1 of Eighth Army of the US. headquarters under the cap of “UN forces”, removed the former “Far East Army Headquarters” in 1957, organized “Pacific Joint Force Headquarters” and put Eighth Army of the US. headquarters under its direct control and brought “UN Force Headquarters” in Seoul. Then they reorganized seventh division and first panzer division to be “Nuclear Weapon Divisions” equipped with tactical － 89 － nuclear weapons to face nuclear war and brought Honest John guided missile battalion and 280mm nuclear artillery battalion in south Korea. They also established fourth Guided Missile Headquarters of the US. Army and converted the whole territory of south Korea into nuclear base. Various tactical and nuclear guided missile bases including Hawk guided missile base was constructed throughout south Korea centering front zone and Seoul and the regions such as Pyongthaek, Kunsan, Osan, Jeju Island and Kwangju was converted into US. army bases. The US imperialists have military bases in several European countries, Japan and Philippine, but they are all limit in certain regions. But in south Korea the whole territory has been converted into US. army military base. South Korea has been converted into the biggest military base and nuclear base in the Far East with many US army military bases and thousands of nuclear weapons. There are 101 US. army bases in south Korea and the area occupies 73 200 000 phyong (241 500 000m2). This equals the area of half of Seoul city and 30 times as big as Youi Island. Like this, military “Agreements” between south Korea and the US are the “legal” means of military domination which “justified” the US occupation of south Korea and formulated the complete transfer of the whole territory of south Korea to the aggressive military base. The reason why military “treaties” concluded between the US and the south Korean puppets represent legal obstacles encroaching upon peace on the Korean peninsula is, secondly, because they trample down peace on the Korean peninsula by “legalizing” aggressive war practices against our country. In the first place, the US holds control over puppet army through various military “treaties” and “agreements” thus aggravating situation on the Korean peninsula. The US regulated that the US invasive commander retains “all rights to exercise strategic supervision” over puppet army force and “will continue to operate practice and armaments and the organization of peace-keeping force” consisting “national security forces”, “coast security forces” and “police” in the “Provisional Administrative Agreement on Military and Public Security to be Enforced in the Period of Transition”, the first military “treaty”. In particular this treaty states that the puppet south Korean president recognizes the US commander’s control over all necessary establishments such as port, military camp, railway, communication and airport. The US concluded the “Agreement on Transfer of Supreme Command” with the south Korean puppet and incorporated south Korean puppet army force into the “UN. army” and enable the “supreme commander of the UN. army” to fully exercise the supreme command over the puppet army force. What’s of primary importance in the supreme command over the south Korean puppet army force is the US-south Korean “Union Headquarters”. The US sees it as “inevitable result” of the US-south Korean “Mutual Defense Treaty” burbles that the “Union Army” shall deal with all invasions on south Korea. This clearly proves that the US completed their cunning invasive military control system to make south Korean puppets their cannon fodder. The US holds a supreme command over puppet army by framing “military advisory” system in south Korea through several military “treaties” concluded with south Korean puppet. The US concluded an “agreement” on establishing “US military advisory board” in south Korea and “legally” stipulated the exerciser of supreme command of “US military advisors” over the south － 90 － Korean puppet army. This “agreement” regulates that the “US military advisory board” “give advice and aid related to the organization of national defense and exercise” and “shall provide with necessary advice and aids” to the south Korean puppet. By this “agreement” the “US military advisory board” give “advice” concerning military activities of the respective “departments” of the puppet army and commence “audit” on the efficient usage of the “military aid”. Through this process “US military advisory board” retains full command over all military materials, facilities and war devices under the control of the south Korean puppet . Consequently south Korean puppet is unable to use a single bullet, a gallon of petrol or a soldier at their own will without consent of the US. US imperialists have also legalized the aggressive war maneuvers against our Republic through the “treaties” and “agreements” to provide “legal” guarantee for the provocation of a new war in the Korean peninsula. They destroyed ceasefire in July 1953 and fabricated “Joint Declaration” in collusion with south Korea for the provocation of a new aggressive war before the conclusion of US-south Korea “Agreement on Mutual Defense”. They “legalized” their maneuvers to make south Korea a strongpoint for the implementation of their strategy on Korea by formulating in the “Joint Declaration” that they would “agree” on the use of “facilities in south Korea” necessary for the implementation of “joint task”. Especially, the US imperialists have stipulated that, “in case any party admits a threat by a military attack from the outside”, the parties can “take appropriate measures separately or jointly” at any time in the Article 2 of US-south Korea “Agreement on Mutual Defense”. This article has rationalized the reinforcement of aggressive forces and policy of building up military bases, “legalized” the strengthening of military potentials to invade the northern part of the Republic under the pretext of “threat of invasion to the south”. This article also reckoned that the US imperialists and south Korea could take military actions to invade the northern part of the Republic at any moment cooking up a pretext of “threat of invasion to the south” and “threat of attack from the outside”. The wild ambition to invade our Republic has been openly formulated in the Article 3. The article has stipulated that the both party will take aggressive military actions jointly or separately under the pretext of “military attack” on the “territory under the administrative control of the other party and the future territory recognized by both party to be legally under the administrative control of the other party”. This aggressive article ensures the US imperialists and the south Korean puppet conditions for the beginning of aggressive military actions against the northern part of the Republic in two sides. One is that this “article” was made up to provoke the aggressive war by inciting the south Korean puppet under the pretext of “threat of invasion to the south” and “threat of communism”. “The future territory recognized by both party to be legally under the administrative control of the other party” as described in this “article” took into consideration the invasion to the northern part of the Republic by inciting the south Korean puppet. The other is that this “article” formulated that the US imperialists could launch aggressive － 91 － military actions against the northern part of the Republic at any time. Under the hackneyed pretext of “military attack” on the “territory under the administrative control of the other party and the future territory recognized by both party to be legally under the administrative control of the other party”, the US imperialists could invade DPRK standing on the side of the puppet regime. The US imperialists and the successive “government” of south Korea have been committing maneuvers for provocation of aggressive war against our Republic on the basis of the aggressive US-south Korea “Agreement on Mutual Defense”. Even today the US imperialists and Park Geun Hyee puppet clique of south Korean is committing maneuvers for provocation of aggressive war against our Republic almost every day to provoke a new aggressive war in Korea. The frequent provocations and “military exercises” are legalized according to the “treaties” and “agreements” such as US-south Korea “Agreement on Mutual Defense”. As shown above, the “treaties” and “agreements” agreed between US and the south Korean puppet are treacherous ones which are in the service of turning south Korea into military aggressive bases and military appendages and are the major obstacles threatening the peace in the Korean peninsula. The US imperialists and south Korean puppet “government” should abolish the military “treaties” and “agreements” which threaten the peace in the Korean peninsula seriously and cause danger of nuclear war and make practical and positive efforts to ensure the peace in the Korean peninsula. － 92 －