Validity of the Idea that the Maintenance of Juche Character and National Identity is the Principled Requirement of the Solution of Nation Issues Choe Kum Chun The issue of nation is an important socio-political problem that determines the destiny and the future of a country and nation and mankind. Without the correct solution of nation issues, the independent development and the prosperity of a country and nation are inconceivable and the bright future of mankind can not be expected. The Juche idea, for the first time in history, provided the most scientific and perfect idea and theory on the nation issue and its solution. Its idea clarified in an original way that a nation issue is, in essence, an issue of safeguarding and realizing the independence of the nation, that is, the issue of whether the nation has independence or not and how it safeguards and realizes its independence. And it also gave a new scientific elucidation that the nation issue is a problem arising separately from the issue of social revolution that liquidates the class oppression and that it is a problem that continues to exist even after the socialist revolution. The Juche idea, on the basis of the scientific elucidation of the nation issue, put forward a new idea that the Juche character and national identity must be maintained in the development of a country and nation in order to solve the nation issue successfully. The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il said as follows. “The struggle of the masses for independence is waged with the country and nation as the unit, so the party, the government and the masses of each country should conduct the revolution and construction independently and creatively as masters. It is only when they hold fast to the Juche character and national identity and maintain the line of independence in the revolution and construction that they can defend the sovereignty of the country and nation, guarantee their independent development and realize the independence of the masses successfully.”  (“THE DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF KOREA IS A JUCHE-ORIENTED SOCIALIST STATE WITH INVINCIBLE MIGHT” P. 13) To maintain the Juche character in shaping the destiny of a country and nation means that the nation carves out its destiny in an independent and creative way as its master. In other words, it means that a nation itself becomes the master of its destiny and determines and deals with all the problems arising in shaping the destiny of the country and nation according to its own judgment and will and solves them to suit its concrete situation in reliance on its creative power. After all, to maintain the Juche character means that a nation itself defends the position of master and plays the role as such in carving out the destiny of the country and nation. To preserve the national identity in shaping the destiny of a country and nation means that a nation preserves and develops its specific fine features and applies them to the all fields of social life. In other words, to preserve the national identity is to maintain the excellent culture and traditions peculiar to a nation that were formed and consolidated historically and to create its new superiority continuously and to keep alive and display to the full the national characters in the struggle to shape － 27 － its destiny and develop independently. Only when the Juche character is maintained and the national identity is displayed in shaping its destiny, can a nation ensure its independent development and realize the independence of the popular masses successfully. The validity of the idea that the maintenance of Juche character and national identity is the principled requirement for the solution of nation issues is, firstly, that it embodies thoroughly the principle of hewing out the destiny of a nation. Success or failure of carving out the destiny of a nation is determined by how the nation applies the principle of hewing out the destiny of a nation and country. When a nation realizes the principle correctly, the nation or country can defend the position of master and fulfill its responsibility and role to shape its destiny successfully. The master of the destiny of any nation is the nation itself.  It is the nation itself that is interested in safeguarding the independence, the lifeblood of shaping its destiny and seeking a prosperity. Any other nations can not save the destiny of a nation and even if so, they can not defend it forever with responsibility. The destiny of a nation must be shaped by none other than the power of the nation itself. When the nation realizes the independence by its own power, it can become the master of its destiny and develop into an independent, prosperous and strong nation and exercise complete equality in the international community. It is true that every nation does not have the same national identity and creative power. That is why every nation develops its economy and culture and transforms the social relations in its specific manner. The force to shape the destiny of a nation is its own creative power. It is the creative power of a nation to make use of its resources and achieves the unity and cohesion of the nation members in accordance with the history and tradition peculiar to the nation and its independent demand. The resource, technology and the power of the other nation might be a certain help to the development of a nation but it can not be the decisive force of the development of the nation and play, to all intents and purposes, no more than a secondary role. Like this, every nation is the master of its own destiny and the destiny of a nation is hewed out by its own power. It is just the principle of shaping the destiny of a country and nation. Therefore, in order to carve out the destiny of a nation and country successfully and solve the nation issue correctly, the Juche character must be maintained and the national identity be displayed. When the Juche character and the national identity are firmly maintained and displayed, a nation can hold the position of master of its destiny and fulfill its responsibility and role and thus bring the nation issue to the successful solution. As it embodies most thoroughly the principle of hewing out the destiny of a nation, the idea that the maintenance of Juche character and national identity is the principled requirement for the solution of nation issues becomes the most valid idea and theory that guarantee the successful solution of nation issue. － 28 － The validity of the idea that the maintenance of Juche character and national identity is the principled requirement for the solution of nation issues is, secondly, that it embodies correctly the law-governed requirements of the process of national development. The process of development of a nation is not the course in which a nation comes to its extinction or ruin by being assimilated to or merged into another nation but the course in which every nation exists independently and develops into the more civilized and powerful one. It’s the law-governed process of national development. The independent development process is the one that all the nations develop into those with a high cultural standard and strong national power. The development of a nation is realized by its own power according to its independent demand. A nation’s independent demand is the expression of its independence, the lifeblood of the nation, and when the independent demand is met, the nation can develop independently without being subordinated, assimilated to or merged into another nation. Every nation has its creative power and wisdom and develops in an independently over a long period of time. After all, the process of a nation’s own development is the course of its independent development in which the nation develops into a civilized, prosperous and strong one on its own according to its independent demand and desire. The process of a nation’s own development is also the course of creating its specific life and history freely. The process of the nations’ development is not the course of making the “universal value of humanity” and “global culture”, transcending differences between the nations but the course of showing clearly their own existence, features and appearances while creating what is peculiar to them. The life and history specific to a nation are created through the display of its own intelligence and ability. Every nation develops independently by creating its own specific life and history by virtue of its excellent wisdom and talent. The more specific and excellent a nation’s wisdom and talent are, the more characteristic and distinguished its life and history are, and the more strongly the nation develops independently. But if a nation’s wisdom and talent are restricted or suppressed by the foreign forces, the nation’s life and history can not be created smoothly and its independent development is delayed or failed. The creation of the life and history peculiar to every nation is realized through the process of solving all the problems related to hewing out its destiny in accordance with its peculiarities and real situation. Each nation has its own peculiarities. Idea and ideal, emotion and sentiment are different from nation to nation, and the same can be said of the geographic settings and conditions. Therefore, only when all nations solve all the problems according to their peculiarities and situation, can they create their life and history in every field of society such as politics, economy and culture. As a result, to maintain and apply the Juche character and national identity in carving out the destiny of nations and countries is raised as a lawful requirement of the solution of nation issue. Reflecting comprehensively such a lawful requirement of the process of national development, the idea that the maintenance of Juche character and national identity is the principled requirement for the solution of nation issues is a valid idea that enables the nation problems to be successfully solved. － 29 － The validity of the idea that the maintenance of Juche character and national identity is the principled requirement for the solution of nation issues is, thirdly, that it can check and frustrate resolutely the imperialists’ policy of obliteration of nations perpetrated under the pretext of “integration” of the world. Aggression and plunder are the nature of imperialists and their maneuvers to wipe out the Juche character and national identity of other nations and realize their wild ambition for world supremacy are being strengthened. Apart from the struggle to check and frustrate the imperialists’ atrocious policy of obliteration of nations, the independent development of countries and nations is inconceivable and the successful solution of nation issue can not be expected. Today, the imperialists’ maneuvers to obliterate the nations assumes a more heinous and cunning character than ever. The imperialists are urging that it is a trend that the commonness of the lives of the nations are increasing and the world economy is being integrated and globalized as the multi-national corporations are developing and the connection and exchange between nations are becoming  more and more intimate. Disregarding the desire and demand of every nation that is developing independently and individually in their own way, the US-led imperialists are trying to put all the countries, nations and regions under their control to subordinate and assimilate them. They are trying not only to advertise “multi-party system” and “polycentrism” as the model of the democratic mode of politics and forcing them on the others but also to dominate the other countries and nations and satisfy their endless cupidity under the pretext of “integration” of the world. They are maneuvering viciously to deprive the other nations of their soul and make them slaves obedient to their arbitrary demand by attaching paramount importance to destroying the national culture peculiar to the other countries and nations and running high fever in the dissemination of the rotten Western culture and Yankee culture. Every country and nation has its pick of the ideology and social system and thus, they have a right to shape their destiny with their ideology and systems. It is in fact that the relationship and connection between the lives of the nations expand with the development of the economic and cultural exchange between the countries and nations, but to all intents and purposes, they happen on the premise of and on the basis of the independent and individual development of the nations. The struggle of hewing out the destiny of a country and nation is waged with the country and nation as a unit. Since all the countries and nations are carving out their destiny independently with their own ideology and social systems suitable for their concrete situation and peculiarities, there can, by all means, no “integration” of the world covering politics, economy and culture. To check and frustrate the imperialists’ policy of obliteration of nations perpetrated under the pretext of “integration” of the world is an important problem to ensure the independent development and prosperity of the countries and nations and solve the nation issues successfully. Only when the Juche character is firmly maintained and national identity is displayed to the full － 30 － in carving out the destiny of nations and countries, the imperialists’ policy of obliteration of nations can be thoroughly frustrated and the nation issues can be solved successfully. When all the nations become the master of their destiny and carve it out in an independent and creative manner and display their features and superiority to the full, the imperialists’ policy of obliteration of nations will become impotent and end in the failure. As the most valid idea that the maintenance of Juche character and national identity is the principled requirement for the solution of nation issues was advanced for the first time in history by the immortal Juche idea, the correct road has been clearly indicated to safeguard and maintain the independence, the lifeblood of a country and nation, and realize their sovereign independence and prosperity and grandeur. － 31 －