The Idea of the Songun Revolution Is a Great Guideline for Our Revolution Ho Chol Su The idea of the Songun revolution is the revolutionary ideology of the great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il.. If an ideology is to become a guideline for a revolution, it should reflect the requirements of the revolution most correctly and provide scientific ways for realizing them. The idea of the Songun revolution is a great guideline for our revolution. The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il said as follows. “The Songun-based revolutionary line of our Party is a great revolutionary line of our era and an ever-victorious banner of our revolution.” (“THE SONGUN-BASED REVOLUTIONARY LINE IS A GREAT REVOLUTIONARY LINE OF OUR ERA AND AN EVER-VICTORIOUS BANNER OF OUR REVOLUTION” P. 20) The idea of the Songun revolution is an idea of giving precedence to military affairs in the struggle to accomplish the masses’ cause of independence, the socialist cause, and pushing ahead with the whole of the revolution and construction with the revolutionary army as the core force. The first reason why the idea of the Songun revolution becomes a great guideline for our revolution is that it is an idea that reflects most correctly the requirements of our revolution to safeguard the sovereignty of the country and nation and realize the masses’ independence. The struggle for masses’ cause of independence, the socialist cause, is accompanied with the showdown of force with imperialism and all other reactionary forces. Aggression and plunder are an intrinsic nature of the imperialists and their way of existence. As long as imperialism whose intrinsic nature is aggression and plunder exists, the world cannot be at peace and the masses’ aspiration for independence will be threatened. As long as imperialism remains in the world, the sole way for safeguarding the sovereignty of the country and nation and realizing the masses’ independence is strengthening the force of arms. Both the sovereignty and peace of the country and nation can be ensured only by relying on the force of arms—this is a summing up of the human history. Defending the sovereignty of the country and nation and realizing the masses’ independence by holding fast to and relying on the force of arms poses itself as a particularly important matter for our revolution. It is because the struggle of our people to defend the sovereignty of the country and nation and realize their independence is waged among fierce showdown with US imperialism, the ringleader of the global imperialism. , Ⅱ Having made an inroad into south Korea under the disguise of “liberators” after the World War the US imperialists started the Korean war in an attempt to realize their aggressive ambition to turn the whole of Korea into their colony. After the ceasefire of the war they made vicious efforts to ignite another war, far from learning a lesson from their defeat in the war. Clamouring about “military preparedness,” they shipped a huge force of aggression and modern military hardware into south Korea and waged reckless north-targeted military exercises on a large － 14 － scale, bringing the situation of the Korean peninsula into the brink of war. In the 1970s they waged Team Spirit joint military exercise and various other war drills by enlisting a huge force as capable of waging a war. And they deployed more than 1 000 nuclear weapons of various kinds including neutron bombs in south Korea in an attempt to crush the DPRK militarily by all means, turning it into the largest nuclear arsenal in the Far East. In the 1980s and 1990s, they made more vicious attempts to invade DPRK. Their attempts reached their height from the mid-1990s. Entering the 90s of the 20th century, the imperialist reactionaries intensified their offensive against anti-imperialist independent forces to an unprecedented extent, availing themselves of the occasion of the collapse of the global socialist system, and the moves for aggression and blockade of US imperialism which had risen as the sole super-power of the world went to the extreme. The collapse of the global socialist market system and natural calamities that hit the DPRK for several consecutive years created severe obstacles in the way of its economic construction and its people’s living. Regarding the DPRK, which invariably held up the banner of anti-imperialist independence, the banner of socialism, and faced up US imperialism head-on, as a sore in the flesh, the US imperialists and other imperialist reactionaries made desperate efforts to isolate and suffocate the country politically, militarily and economically. In the given situation, anti-imperialist military front has become the major front of our revolution in the struggle to safeguard the sovereignty of the country and nation and realize the masses’ independence. Only when it gains firm supremacy over the enemy on the anti-imperialist military front, can it defend the sovereignty of the country and nation. And only by relying on the leading role of the revolutionary army which is the strongest in the revolutionary sense, organization and fighting capability, can it possible to bring about a fresh upsurge on all fronts of socialist construction. The idea of the Songun revolution reflects most correctly the requirement of our revolution for consolidating the military might in all aspects and pushing ahead with the revolution and construction as a whole with the revolutionary army as the core force. The second reason why the idea of the Songun revolution becomes a great guideline for our revolution is that it clearly illumines the ways for safeguarding the sovereignty of the country and nation and perfectly realizing the masses’ independence. The idea of the Songun revolution clarifies a revolutionary theory for safeguarding the sovereignty of the country and nation and realizing the masses’ independence. The revolutionary theory as provided by the idea of the Songun revolution is that it is essential to strengthen the force of revolutionary arms, the revolutionary army, consolidate the driving force of the revolution with the revolutionary army as the core and advance the revolution and construction along the road of victory by relying on it. The revolutionary theory clarifies that in order to defend the sovereignty of the country and nation and the gains of the revolution, it is important to make the army an army of the Party and the leader and invincible revolutionary armed forces capable of defeating any enemy, however formidable, by giving precedence to military affairs and directing primary efforts to army building. － 15 － It is a serious lesson taught by the history of the world socialist movement that when the arms are weak or waver, they can defend neither the destiny of the masses nor socialism. Strengthening the revolutionary army into invincible revolutionary armed forces is the most important demand for defending the sovereignty of the country and nation and realizing the independence of the masses. In the struggle for socialism and against imperialism military might is of paramount importance; prevailing over the enemy on the military front is a prerequisite of victory on all other fronts. Victory on all fronts—politics and ideology, science and technology—is guaranteed by the victory on the military front. The idea of the Songun revolution is a revolutionary ideology that regards it most important to strengthen the revolutionary armed forces. As long as there are invincible revolutionary armed forces fully prepared politically and ideologically and modernized in the military and technical aspects, the sovereignty of the country and nation and the gains of socialism can be staunchly safeguarded and conditions and environments be created for energetically propelling socialist construction. The idea of the Songun revolution advocates that the driving force of the revolution should be consolidated with the revolutionary army as the main force and the revolution and construction be carried on by relying on the leading role of the army. The revolution is a do-or-die struggle to decide who prevails over whom between the revolutionary forces and the counterrevolutionary forces, so the destiny of the revolution depends on how the driving force of the revolution is strengthened and how its role is enhanced. An important problem arising in strengthening the driving force of the revolution and enhancing its role is the problem related with the main force of the revolution. Which social class, stratum or group can become the main force of the revolution is determined by its position and role in the revolution and its revolutionary sense, organization and fighting capability. The problem of the main force of the revolution cannot remain immutable in any times and societies and it is not one which should be solved only on the basis of class relations. The idea of the Songun revolution, unfettered by any established theories or formulae, makes it possible to strengthen the driving force of the revolution with the People’s Army as the main force and enhance its role on the basis of a scientific analysis of its position and role in our revolution in the present times and its revolutionary temperament and fighting capability. Among the social groups that form the revolutionary forces in our society, the group that is the strongest in the revolutionary sense, organization, discipline and fighting capability is the revolutionary army under the guidance of the leader. The revolutionary army, thanks to its revolutionary sense, great spiritual strength and revolutionary temperament, is capable of leading society and propelling the revolutionary struggle and construction work. When single-hearted unity of the army and the people is achieved, with the former as the model, the driving force of the revolution will be strengthened. And when all the people learn from the revolutionary soldier spirit and fighting mettle of the army, the role of the driving force of the revolution will be enhanced radically. The idea of the Songun revolution has opened a broad avenue to successfully advancing the cause of the masses’ independence, the socialist cause, by strengthening the driving force of the revolution and enhancing its role. － 16 － In this way the idea of the Songun revolution elucidated original ways for defending the sovereignty of the country and nation and the gains of socialism by strengthening the People’s Army into invincible revolutionary armed forces and for forcefully pushing forward with the overall revolution and construction by consolidating the driving force of the revolution with the army as the main force and enhancing its role. The idea of the Songun revolution provides a new mode of politics by which to apply in practice the revolutionary theory for defending the sovereignty of the country and nation and realizing the masses’ independence. Ideas and ideals are translated into practice by politics, which in turn decides the destiny of the masses and the rise and fall of the country and nation. The revolutionary theory advanced by the idea of the Songun revolution is splendidly embodied through Songun politics. The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il elucidated for the first time in history that socialist politics for fully realizing the independent demands and interests of the masses should be Songun politics which give importance and precedence to military affairs, and formulated Songun politics as the basic mode of socialist politics. Songun politics is a mode of socialist politics that presents military affairs as the most important of all state affairs and defends the country, revolution and socialism and accelerates overall socialist construction with the People’s Army as the core, as the main force. The comprehensive establishment of the mode of Songun politics has created an ever-victorious, treasured sword with which to brilliantly put into reality the centuries-old desire of the masses of the people for having independence defended and realized. As long as the idea of the Songun revolution illumined the way ahead of our revolution and we are led by the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un, the revolutionary cause of Juche is sure to emerge victorious. － 17 －