Scientific Accuracy of the Fundamental Principle of Socialist Politics Om Kyong Chol Today our socialism is demonstrating its invincible might all over the world, because our socialist politics is powerful and its fundamental principle is the most scientific one. The fundamental principle of socialist politics is the most scientific political principle. The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il said as follows. “The basic advantage of our form of socialism is that it is a man-centered society, a society which considers everything with man at the centre and makes everything serve him.”(“ON THE JUCHE PHILOSOPHY” P. 112) Generally, the character, contents and the mode of a certain politics are defined by the fundamental principle which it is based on. According to its fundamental principle, politics might be popular or anti-popular and its system and mode may be changed. the first time in history. The Juche idea gave a scientific elucidation of the fundamental principle of socialist politics for The fundamental principle of socialist politics clarified by the Juche idea is, in a word, that the masses of the people are the masters of the political power and the performers of politics. Since it is based on the fundamental principle which is evolved with the popular masses at the center, socialist politics is displaying to the full its superiority and might as the politics for masses of the people and by the masses themselves. There have been recorded many types of politics in human history, but there was no politics like socialist politics that enabled the masses of the people become the master of politics and completely serve them. The reason why the fundamental principle of socialist politics is the most scientific one is, first of all, because it is based on the most correct viewpoint and attitude towards the masses of people. The scientific accuracy of fundamental principle of politics is defined by a right viewpoint and attitude towards the masses of the people. Nothing can be said of the scientific accuracy, superiority and might of politics apart from a right viewpoint and attitude towards the masses of the people, because politics is an essential function of society that is directly related to the activities of masses of the people. The fundamental principle of the man-centered socialist politics is based on the most correct viewpoint and attitude towards the popular masses. The correct viewpoint and attitude towards the masses of the people is the bedrock of the fundamental principle of the man-centered socialist politics. The origin of the word “the masses of the people” goes far back in the history, but a right viewpoint and attitude towards the masses of the people was not established in any time. Reactionary ruling classes and their mouthpiece profaned the masses of the people as the men of low birth, the poor of “lowermost classes”, “an ignorant group”, “a passive object” and regarded them as the object of the rule and the tool for their fortunes. － 22 － Initiators of Marxism considered the development of society by regarding man as the main factor and illuminated the masses of the people as a creator of history. This has an important significance in establishing the scientific comprehension of the masses of the people. But a view of Marxism about the masses of the people is an one sided view that considered the masses of the people only as the producers of the material wealth. Production of the material wealth is important in the activities of masses of the people, but it is not the whole of their creative activities. People's activities include not only the production of the material wealth, but also the transformation of a society and the creation of an ideology and culture. Masses of the people are not only the producers of material wealth, but also the direct performers of remaking the society and themselves. creator of history has the historic limitation. masses of the people. In this sense, the view of the preceding theory that considered the masses of the people as the The Juche idea first illustrated perfectly the most correct viewpoint and attitude towards the The most correct viewpoint and attitude towards the masses of the people illustrated by the Juche idea is one that consider the masses of the people as the most powerful and precious being in the world. The masses of the people are possessors of the most powerful creativity of remaking the nature and society. wealth. There is a limit to the power and intelligence of an individual person but the power and intelligence of the masses of the people know no limit. The masses are the almighty being in the world. All in the society are created, history develops and the revolution is advanced by virtue of the unfathomable strength and intelligence of the masses. Masses of the people remake the nature to develop the productive forces and create the material It is masses that remake the nature and develop the productive forces and it is also the masses that directly take part in the production of the material wealth. Since the human history began, the masses have conquered the nature and created the material necessary wealth for their existence and development by means of their creative ability. Vast material wealth accumulated in the human society is the fruit of the creation of the masses. Reactionary ruling classes can not be the creator of the material wealth. They are only the parasites of the society who maintain their existence by plundering the material wealth created by the masses. The masses are the creators of the ideological and cultural wealth. The masses accumulate experiences necessary for the creation of the ideological and cultural wealth and make the material tools and conditions. They also give a powerful stimulus to the creation and development of culture by making the － 23 － valuable scientific inventions and creating literature and art works. Modern science, technology as well as the progressive ideology and culture that human history acquired are all results of the creative activities of the masses. Reactionary ruling classes do not allow the creation of the progressive ideological and cultural wealth to retain their privileged position, but rather rush about in a frenzy to remove them. It is also in fact that the ruling classes also put up the mouthpieces of their ideology and culture. However, it is only for the purpose to numb the people's independent spirit and deform their creativity. The creators of wholesome ideology and culture for society are only the masses. The masses are the performers of remaking the society. The masses of the people not only require remaking the society, but they perform it themselves. Collapse of slavery and feudalism, abolition of the capitalist system and founding of the new socialist system were all achieved by the struggle of the masses to remake the society. The masses overthrow the old social system and establish the progressive social system, and abolish the historic legacy of the old society with their bloody struggle. Social development is promoted by the positive struggle of the masses. Reactionary ruling class is interested in keeping the old social system, not remaking the society, and makes desperate efforts to interrupt the progressive remaking of a society and keep the old social system. The progressive remaking of a society is only performed by the masses that are awakened and The revolutionary changes and progresses of nature and society are not achieved without creative united. activities of the masses. All of society is created and developed by the masses. Therefore, the masses are the most precious and powerful in this world. From this viewpoint and attitude, the principle that the masses are the masters of political power and the performers of politics are given. The fundamental principle of socialist politics is the political principles that makes the masses true masters of politics and fulfill their responsibility and makes all the process of the realization of politics serve the masses. This is possible only when the masses are regarded as the most precious and powerful being in this world. The masses can not be made the masters of political power and the performers of politics and the politics can not serve them apart from the absolute confidence in the power of the masses. From a viewpoint that the masses are the chicken livers and the worthless ones, it is clear that the masses are overridden as the objects of politics, not the performers of politics and their political independence are infringed. As seen above, the fundamental principle of socialist politics is the scientific political principle based on the most correct viewpoint and attitude towards the masses. The second reason why the fundamental principle of socialist politics illustrated by Juche idea is － 24 － the most scientific political principle is that it reflects the demand of the present era correctly. Scientific accuracy of the fundamental principle of politics is formulated by how it reflects the demand of the era as well as the correct viewpoint and attitude towards the people. Scientific accuracy of the fundamental principle is determined by whether it reflects correctly the demands of the era or not, because politics guides the way ahead of the era. The fundamental principle of socialist politics reflects the demand of the present era, the era of Juche most correctly. The era of Juche is a new stage of history distinguished fundamentally from all previous ages.  The masses who were treated contemptuously and oppressed in the past can improve the developments of society and history independently and creatively as the master of destiny in an era of Juche. During the previous historic ages the reactionary ruling class posed as a master and therefore, the masses were oppressed and repressed cruelly by them. In all the periods of the ruling society the masses had been the object of sacrifice for the benefits and despotism of the ruling class and object of history for thousands of years. Though they had unfathomable strength, the masses had to bear heavy burdens of creating history according to the thought and demand of the reactionary ruling class, not their own thought and will. But as the exploited working masses waged the vigorous struggles to overthrow the colonial rule of the imperialists and realize the national liberation, the age in which the destiny of the masses was controlled by the reactionary ruling class and imperialist came to an end and the age when the masses develop history and carve out their destiny as the master of the world and themselves appeared. The new era of Juche put forward a new task of history in accordance with the enhanced positions and roles of the masses. In the past when the masses were the object of history, it was the main requirement of the masses, the requirement of the time to be released from an iron chain and subordination of capital. The Juche era when the masses have become the true master of politics requires that the masses should be set up as the master of the political power and the performer of politics and that the realization of politics should be run through with the love for and trust in the masses. It is a direction of political development of the present era that the masses exercise their political right as the masters of politics and cope with all problems arising in the realization of politics in accordance with their own will. Of course, in some parts of the world, the dignity and might of the masses is ignored and the masses are the object of political pressure, but nobody can interrupt the trend of an era of independence that makes the masses be the masters of politics and the politics do a service to the masses. Like this, the fundamental principle of the man-centered socialist politics reflects the requirement of the present era, the era of Juche when the masses become the master of history and shape their destiny independently and creatively. Therefore, the fundamental principle of socialist politics is characterized as the most scientific － 25 － political principle. Today, in our country the fundamental principle of socialist politics that the popular masses are the master of political power and the performer of politics is being applied fully. To regard the masses as the master of political power and the performer of politics and love them boundlessly and serve the masses devotedly was the lofty political idea of President Kim Il Sung and General Kim Jong Il. The great Generalissimos who regarded it as a motto that “the people are my God” were among the masses all their life and shared life and death with our people and worked devotedly for people. The true character of the integrated whole of the leader, Party and the masses that is seen only in our society is an invaluable result of the politics of the love for the masses of the great Generalissimos. The politics of love for and trust in the people of the great President and General is being unfolded by the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un another distinguished great man. The impressive pictures which can not be seen without tears are unfolded all over the country and our people are leading dignified life thanks to the politics of love for the people unfolded by the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un. Therefore people all over the world say that our Korean style of socialism, the people-centered socialism is the most ideal and are green with envy. Today the maneuvers of the imperialists and reactionaries to isolate and stifle our socialism are becoming more and more undisguised day by day, but the true character of the people centered socialism of our own style that is advancing straight along the road of independence, Songun and socialism is showing vividly the scientific accuracy and superiority of the socialist politics that regard the popular masses as the master of political power and the performer of politics. － 26 －