Immortal Exploits of the Great Generalissimo Kim Il Sung in Developing the Non-Aligned Movement Jin Jae Gyong The great Generalissimo Kim Il Sung, upholding the banner of anti-imperialism and independence, conducted the energetic foreign activities for the development and consolidation of the non-aligned movement. The respected Comrade Kim Jong Un said as follows. “Kim Il Sung was the most outstanding leader and an extraordinary veteran statesman who bequeathed imperishable exploits to his country and people and to the times and revolution by means of profound ideas and theories, uncommon leadership ability and gigantic revolutionary practice.” (“THE GREAT KIM IL SUNG IS THE ETERNAL LEADER OF OUR PARTY AND OUR PEOPLE” P. 2) The great Generalissimo Kim Il Sung put forth the outstanding ideas and theories and the scientific strategic-tactical plan for the non-aligned movement(NAM), the anti-imperialist and independent force of our age, and conducted vigorous external activities, thus accomplishing the immortal exploits in the development and consolidation of the NAM. First of all, he provided with the firm guiding principle for this movement, putting forth the outstanding ideas and theories. The proper ideas and theories are the vital issues for this movement in holding fast the banner of anti-imperialism and independence. This historical task was not solved perfectly until the great Generalissimo put forth the distinguished ideas and theories of the movement. He clarified the essence, character and mission of the NAM. He defined that the NAM is a progressive movement which is against all kinds of domination and subordination, and aspiring to independence. And he also asserted that it is a powerful revolutionary force of our age against imperialism. He defined its mission is to remove imperialism, colonialism and racism, to get rid of all sorts of domination and subordination, to safeguard peace and security against aggression and interference, to realize the sovereignty of the country and state and to bring about socio-economic development. His definition served as the solid foundation which made it possible to transform this movement into a wide-scale international movement that greatly contributes to the implementation of the independent cause of the world and into a propellant for advancing the human history. He also clarified the fundamental ideology and principle of this movement. The fundamental ideology is for independence and peace, and against imperialism and war, while its fundamental principle is to advance in an independent way without joining any sort of bloc. The NAM is a movement for independence, and advocating independence is the main content of NAM. As independence is the life and soul of each country and nation, so is it for the NAM. These fundamental ideology and principle of this movement naturally reflect the unanimous will and desire of the people of the non-aligned and developing countries to frustrate domination and subordination of imperialism and make independent living keeping the position of masters of their － 7 － lives themselves and to build a new peaceful world without war and invasion. The great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung set forth strategic policies to actively conduct this movement. Valuing this movement, he published a lot of classical works with brilliant wits and talents thus giving perfect answer to the theoretical and practical issues arising in the development of the NAM. His works covered many strategic policies such as to give harsh blow to imperialists with concerted efforts by forming the wide anti-imperialist unified front of the non-aligned countries, to reduce armament and abolish nuclear weapons, to solve every problem arising in the building of a new society by themselves, to keep pace in international arenas including the UN and to hold fast the fundamental ideas and principles of the NAM. His policies are the most revolutionary ones in eliminating domination and subordination of the imperialists and promote independent development the member states. Indeed, thanks to the great Generalissimo Kim Il Sung, a steadfast guarantee to develop this movement into a higher stage was made. revolutionary force of our era. Next, he developed and consolidated this movement into a powerful anti-imperialism and He conducted vigorous activities for the unity of the NAM. Being aware of the importance of the unity of this movement, he let the non-aligned countries to give priority to mutual respect, non-interference, equality and mutual benefit and do only things beneficial to unity, adhering to the banner of independence and non-alignment. Whenever the NAM faced with hardships due to the imperialists’ moves of separation, he let the DPRK government announce its principled stand to keep integral unity of the movement. In addition, he dispatched envoys and high-level delegations to the non-aligned countries to make others have a correct understanding of the stand of our Party and government. He himself met a lot of leaders and personages of parties, states and governments from the non-aligned and developing countries and gave valuable teachings for the unity of the NAM and the building of the independent new society. He also visited the non-aligned countries in Asia, Africa, and Europe and consolidated relations of friendship and unity with them. Thanks to the energetic leadership of the great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung for the unity of the NAM, this movement could frustrate the imperialists’ moves and wonderfully implement its duties before the times and history, expanding and strengthening its own forces. He also led the non-aligned countries to intensely cooperate each other in all domains including politics, economy and culture. As well as supporting each other, strengthening the solidarity and bonds of friendship between the non-aligned countries, he also let them implement the south-south cooperation and promote assistance and exchange. He also let them closely assist each other in the struggle to replace the old international order with the new international order based on independence. In August 1981, he met the agricultural ministers of African countries who participated in the symposium of non-aligned and developing countries to boost agricultural production and told them the detailed ways to study and complete the new agricultural methods that are favorable for － 8 － geographical condition and climate in Africa. Together with this, he actively helped their efforts to build “agricultural research centers” in Guinea and Tanzania and test farms in other countries. He also kind-heartedly helped the non-aligned countries in many domains such as education, healthcare and culture. in the front of this movement. He also greatly encouraged the independent and anti-imperialist people by letting our country be He made our country be the member state of this movement in the early time and created eye-opening miracles and innovations in all domains of politics, economics and culture embodying the Juche idea, and thus our country became the model of the non-aligned countries. In addition, he set forth independence, peace and friendship as the main standpoints in foreign affairs of the DPRK and made our country to continuously expand the relations of friendship and cooperation with many countries in the world holding fast the genuine stand of defending independence. In order to lead the members of this movement to the road of anti-imperialism and independence, he conducted foreign activities with the developing countries on a wide scale in the early 1960s. Under his leadership, our country hosted many international conferences and symposiums and regular film festivals such as the first conference of non-aligned and other developing countries’ educational and cultural ministers, the high-level special conference related to the South-South cooperation and the fourth conference of information ministers of the non-aligned countries thus encouraging the non-aligned countries to rise up in the struggle for anti-imperialism and independence and to consolidate the friendship and unity of those countries. Under his wise leadership, our country accomplished successes and experiences in socialist construction and conducted active and energetic foreign affairs thus enhancing the international prestige and influence of our country so that they could contribute greatly to inspire and encourage the non-aligned countries in their struggle for anti-imperialism and new society building. He also emphasized that they should continuously hold fast the fundamental ideal and principle of the NAM after the Cold War. After the Cold War ended, it was necessary for the NAM to defend the fundamental ideal and principle of the movement and to protect its purity and enhance its role and duty. Imperialists, taking advantage of the collapse of the Cold War structure, clamored as if the existence, principle and value of its purpose were eliminated thus required to correct its character and ideal or dissolve the movement itself. This is derived from the sin intention of imperialists who try to reduce the role of this movement and clear its existence in the international arena for all. Seeing in the 1990s, the great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung, based on the scientific analysis in the critical situation where the movement was faced with difficulties, clarified the idea that this movement should constantly be existed and strengthened as long as there exists the imperialist dominating forces and the ideal of this movement has not been yet realized. He asserted that, in order to effectively cope with changing situations, the NAM of which the independence is its life, should continuously improve the acting directions. However, it should never － 9 － go beyond its fundamental ideal and principle and however harsh the situation might be, it should always hold fast its fundamental ideal and principle. His teaching became the most correct leading guide for the NAM to ever go on the road of development. Indeed, the great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung is the prominent leader and statesman of the world politics who gave the valuable basis for the development of the NAM by conducting tireless efforts. We should add brilliance to the immortal exploits of the great Generalissimos who devoted everything to the development and consolidation of the NAM and hold the Songun revolutionary leadership of the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un in high esteem so that we should invariably establish the thriving socialist country on this land. － 10 －