Role of Intellectuals in Understanding and Transformation of the World Kim Su Jin People conduct creative activities to transform the world out of their aspirations for independence to overcome the natural and social restrictions and live as masters of the world. Only when they transform the nature, can they free themselves from natural bondages and create material conditions for leading a creative life. Similarly, only when they change social relations, can they achieve their socio-political integrity and play the role as befitting the masters of society. What is important in the people’s creative activities to reshape the world is to be well versed in the essence of things and phenomena and the laws of their movements and on this basis to acquire the ways and means to reshape it. Such essence, laws, ways and means are scientifically clarified by the creative activities of intellectuals. The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il said as follows. “It is the creative activities of intellectuals that give a scientific account of the law of the development of nature and society, as well as the means and ways of transforming the world. The role of intellectuals in the cognition and transformation of the world cannot be played by any other social classes or strata.” (“KIM JONG IL SELECTED WORKS” Vol. 10 P. 185.) As said, the role intellectuals play in cognizing and transforming the world finds expression in giving a scientific explanation of the essence of things and phenomena and the laws of their movements and the ways and means to reshape the world. The role of intellectuals in cognizing and transforming the world, first of all, lies in that they explain the essence of things and phenomena and the laws of their movements. Man gets aware of the essence of things and phenomena and the laws of their movements and on this basis adjusts and controls those movements and sets about reshaping the world. But it is by the creative activities of intellectuals that scientific illumination of the essence of things and phenomena and the laws of their movements is ensured, for they possess expert scientific knowledge. People’s scientific activities rest on their creative ability, or their scientific and technological knowledge. The scientific and technological knowledge they have already acquired takes a major part in their creative ability. Generally speaking, how much man can realize his demands and aspirations depends upon his own creative strength. Just as his demands and aspirations for independence are put into practice according to their creative strength, so man always sets the goals of his activities within the range of his own creative strength. Even if he has aspirations for scientific pursuits and has established the directions to that end, he cannot promote any scientific activities without creative strength—scientific and technological knowledge. However active he might be, he cannot invent anything without scientific and technological knowledge. New scientific inventions can be made only when they are based on the already accumulated scientific and technological knowledge. Only the man who stands on a high level of science and － 32 － technology can he prove successful in solving new scientific problems. Of course, experience is the earliest source of correct knowledge of things and phenomena. Man normally reacts with the objective world to make a living and in the course of it he draws experiences and accumulates the knowledge of the world. In the initial period of the development of mankind people’s knowledge of the world was partial. The partial knowledge based on experience cannot be said a scientific knowledge, however it is correct. As the fragmentary knowledge based on experience is piled up, it is systematized according to a certain principle. This systematized knowledge is the very scientific knowledge. In a word, the knowledge of the world is fragmentary and empirical at the outset but develops into a scientific knowledge--generalized and systematized, practical experiences. Because they possess such systematized scientific knowledge, intellectuals are in a position to clarify the essence of things and phenomena and the laws of their movements in a scientific manner. The clarification of the essence of things and phenomena and the laws of their movements by the creative activities of intellectuals is also related to the fact that intellectuals are engaged in mental labour and specialized scientific activities. Ordinary workers and farmers do physical labour on the shop floor whereas intellectuals do mental labour with expert knowledge and techniques. The progress of science and technology results in a marked increase in the proportion of scientists and technicians among those who take part in production. However, their work is mental labour, not physical labour. By origin, scientific activities can be said to have developed based on the empirical knowledge obtained in the practical activities. They changed into professional scientific activities after going through some historical course. This historical turning-point was caused by the separation of physical and mental labour. After all, science was isolated from physical labour to come into being as professionally mental labourers appear. As the mental work parted from physical labour, conditions were created for some people to be occupied in professional scientific research and systematic scientific views established. It is intellectuals who do mental labour with professional knowledge and technology and it is by their creative scientific activities that the essence of things and phenomena and the law of their movements are scientifically proved. As the requirements of people’s independent and creative practice are raised, science developed in depth without letup and went into classification. Intellectuals made fresh scientific achievements through their mental labour and scientific activities for the specialized research into various branches of science. At present, science develops into a detailed and specialized one on one hand and in close relationship while infiltrating and integrating among its branches on the other hand. Meanwhile, modern science develops into boundary and inclusive one. This shows that scientific progress is made by the varied and wide-ranging efforts of intellectuals in charge of the development of modern science. In this way they contribute to natural transformation by acquiring special scientific knowledge and technology, pursuing creative scientific activities and giving a scientific definition of the essence of － 33 － things and phenomena and the law of their movements. The role intellectuals in cognizing and transforming the world is, secondly that they produce scientific ways and means to reshape the world. For people to get an understanding of the essence of things and phenomena and the law of their movements is only part of creative activities geared to satisfying the demand for independence to get rid of all restrictions and live as masters of the world. To materialize the demand for existence as masters of the world, it is imperative to grasp the essence of things and phenomena and the law of their movements and find ways and means to transform the world. Man transforms the world with working tools and other ways and means. Therefore, the level of development of such ways and means constitutes a major factor decisive to the successful revolution of the world. To conclude, intellectuals scientifically demonstrate essence of things and phenomena and the law of their movements and find ways and means to transform the world as well. First, they give scientific accounts of ways and means to transform the world. The technical means used in human activities to reshape the world are called means of labour. The technical means, however, do not mean merely the means of labour applied for creation of material wealth and production. The material means in man’s activities such as traffic, communications, public catering service, education, scientific research, creation of art and literature and social management are also called technical means or technology. Man cannot conduct his or her activities to reshape the world only with his hand and feet. Only when he produces and applies his means of labour can he successfully reshape the world by enhancing his creative might. The earliest means in human possession were something which a little processing treatment were given to natural things such as stone axe or stone knife so that they can make up for the shortcomings of his manual labour. But, robots and other technological means easily found everywhere take the place of man’s intellectual faculty. The technical means to reshape the world have gradually developed mainly from simple ones to complicated ones in shape and from poor and low-grade ones to efficient and high-grade ones in performance. The historical course of the development of technical means to reshape and conquer the world can be divided largely into three stages—manual, mechanical and automated. In the manual stage the producers improved their working tools and new craftworks in their everyday lives and production in a very smooth way. In the mechanical stage the improvements of mechanical means are made on the basis of the producers’ experience and through scientific development and purposeful application of scientific achievements. Scientific development gave birth to machinery. Accordingly, in the mechanical stage intellectuals’ creative scientific research and its ensuing progress in science form a link in the whole chain of leading the efforts to develop technical means. Consequently, improving the mechanical means by relying on the intellectuals’ creative activities or scientific activities constitutes a new, important share in the improvement of technical means that takes place in the mechanical stage. － 34 － The appearance of mechanical means serves as an epochal turn in the development of technical means to reshape the world. The technical means have developed into automated ones through ceaseless technological upgrading ever since machines made their debut. In the automated stage the intellectuals’ scientific activities and application of their scientific achievements take the greater part of the struggle to reshape the world. In this stage, technical means are improved still more quickly than in the mechanical stage. Today the technical means to reshape the world are largely dependent on the progress of science and technology while technical upgrading of technical means are dynamically stepped up by the creative activities of intellectuals who are possessed of rich scientific and technological knowledge. Second, intellectuals find ways to transform the world.   Reshaping the world is as good as upgrading of technical means and at the same time of ways to transform the world. The work to reshape the world means the man’s creative activities to adapt objective conditions according his demands. Therefore, the world can be reshaped only through a correct method established on the basis of the scientific calculation of the characteristics and law of movements of objective conditions. The ways to reshape the world include methods and technical means based on man’s creative ability, and processes and procedures studded with people’s activities combined with their creative ability and technical means. The ways to reshape the world by man develop from empirical to scientific ones as his cognitive ability of things and phenomena. The empirical method is about bringing into practical application the ways to control and reshape the world on the basis of knowledge obtained through experience in life, not through scientific knowledge of things and phenomena. By contrast, scientific method is about purposefully applying scientific knowledge of things and phenomena and the laws of their movement into practice and on this basis, transforming them in a more efficient manner. The scientific ways of global transformation are found by the creative scientific activities of intellectuals aimed at giving a scientific clarification of the essence of things and phenomena and the law of their movement and of ways and means to reshape the world. Nowadays, with the rapid advance of science and technology the ways and means to reshape the world are turning more and more scientific. The credit goes to the creative activities of intellectuals with a high degree of scientific and technological knowledge. The intellectuals in the field of natural sciences give a scientific explanation of the essence of natural phenomena and the laws of their movements while those in the field of social sciences the essence of social phenomena and the laws of their development and ways and means to reshape and administer society. － 35 －