Immortal Exploits of the Great Leader Comrade Kim Il Sung  to Contribute Peace and Security of Northeast Asia Pak Yong Chol The great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung rendered brilliant services to the peace and security of the northeast Asia with the brilliant intelligence, outstanding leadership and lofty virtue in the 20th century. The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il said as follows. “Comrade Kim Il Sung was the great leader whom our people held in high esteem for the first time in their history of thousands of years, and the sun of humankind who was looked up to by the whole world. Having embarked on the road of revolution in his early years, he devoted his all to the people’s freedom and welfare, overcoming every manner of hardship. And, with the absolute support and trust of our people and of the progressive people the world over he led the revolution to victory, accomplishing immortal exploits that will shine in history.” (“KIM JONG IL SELECTED WORKS” Vol. 13 P. 391) The first important thing of his great exploits made to the peace and security of northeast Asia is that he led the arduous anti-Japanese armed struggle to victory by defeating Japanese imperialists, thus liberating the fatherland and making the peace in the northeast Asia. In line with its national policy, Japanese imperialists occupied Korea and committed the colonial rule. And they also invaded Manchuria in order to enlarge the aggressive war into China. This threatened the peace and security in the region. The great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung set out on the road of revolution in his teens and initiated the Juche idea, Songun idea that is a new revolutionary idea. He organized and expanded the anti-Japanese revolutionary struggle under the banner of Songun. In December 1931, he proclaimed the anti-Japanese war in Mingyuegou meeting and founded the anti-Japanese People’s guerrilla unit in Antu on 25th April, 1932. He strengthened the anti-Japanese people’s guerrilla unit into Korean People’s Revolutionary Army and carried out the active political and military activities. On the basis of the success achieved in the early 1930s, the great leader Comrade Kim II Sung laid down a strategic line to bring about a great upsurge in the anti-Japanese national liberation struggle of Korea and led it to its realization. Regarding it as the sacred international duty of the Korean revolutionaries to consolidate the solidarity with international revolutionary forces, he did his best to form the anti-Japanese united front with Chinese people and defend the USSR with arms. He led the Korean revolutionaries and people to struggle against Japanese imperialists with Chinese people, and gave selfless aid to Chinese people whenever they were in danger to consolidate the anti-Japanese united front. Attaching the importance to strengthening the international solidarity with the Russian people, the great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung wisely led the struggle to defend the USSR, the first socialist state. － 3 － At the early stage of anti-Japanese revolution, he put forward the slogan: “Let us defend USSR with arms!” and shattered the aggressive schemes of Japanese imperialists on USSR by carrying out active military actions. When the Japanese imperialists perpetrated armed acts against USSR, such as the Lake Khasan incident and the Khalkhin – Gol incident, he led the Korean People’s Revolutionary Army to attack the enemy in the rear and make fights to frustrate their transport for military force and war materials. Under the wise leadership of the great leader, the Korean People’s Revolutionary Army conducted the rear-harassing operations to contribute to the peace and security in USSR. The great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung led the 20-year-long arduous anti-Japanese armed struggle to victory and liberated the fatherland on 15th August, 1945. Therefore Japan’s attempt to realize the dream of “the Greater East Asia Co-prosperity Sphere” was frustrated. The second one of his great exploits is that he safeguarded the peace and security of Korean peninsula and east Asia by leading the Fatherland Liberation War to victory. Although Japan was defeated and the World War Ⅱ ended, the peace in Korean peninsula and northeast Asia was not established. After the liberation the US imperialists who occupied the southern part of Korea planned to make it their aggressive military base, furthermore to conquer not only all parts of Korea with it as the stepping-stone but also China and USSR. This was a threat to the peace and security of Korean peninsula and northeast Asia. The US imperialists provoked the aggressive war against DPRK on 25th June, 1950. The Korean people’s struggle against US invaders was not only the struggle for complete liberation and independence of Korea and that for the peace and security of northeast Asia and world but also the fierce confrontation between socialist forces and imperialist forces. The great leader led the Fatherland Liberation War to victory. The US imperialists fed their aggressive military force and armies of its 15 satellite countries into Korean front to occupy the 2-year old-country at a breath and made a massacre barbarously and destroyed nearly everything. Throughout the war, assuming heavy responsibilities of Party, state and army, the great leader struggled through difficulties without the slightest vacillation to lead the army and people to victory. From the outset of the war, the great leader put forward the outstanding strategic plan for the victory of war without a moment’s delay and turned from peace work to war work to mobilize the whole people to the defense of the country. And he presented unique military tactics in accordance with a modern war and defeated enemy’s numerical and technical “superiority” by means of our ideological and tactical superiority. Therefore the 3-year-long Fatherland Liberation War ended in a brilliant victory for our people who rose following the great leader. The great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung led the war to victory, thus safeguarding our country’s freedom and independence, defending the east post of socialist front and contributing to the peace and security of northeast Asia and the world. － 4 － The third one of his great exploits is that he smashed the imperialists’ repeated provocation at every step. Instead of drawing a lesson from the war, the US imperialists contravened the armistice agreement and introduced massive aggressive forces and new type weapons into south Korea to unleash another war. Along with this, the US imperialists revived the Japanese militarism to make it a shock brigade for invading Asia and fabricated a tripartite military alliance, which threatened the peace and security in Korean peninsula and northeast Asia. To check the enemy’s provocation of a new war and replace the armistice agreement with a peace agreement, the great leader strengthened the KPA and the national defense power in every way. He made the KPA into the strongest revolutionary armed forces and armed all the people and fortified the whole country. Under the wise leadership of the great leader, our national defense power was strengthened to smash any military provocations decisively and defend the safety of the socialist Korea and the gains of the revolution. In January, 1968, “Pueblo”, the US armed spy ship, intruded into the territorial waters of DPRK, acting as a spy and was captured by the navy of KPA. At that time the US imperialists threatened and blackmailed us and built up troops, warships and nuclear-powered aircraft carriers in south Korea and the east sea of Korea, crying out for retaliation. The great leader warned the US imperialists that Korean people would return retaliation for “retaliation”, all-out war for “all-out war” and led the army and people brilliantly, making the enemy depressed. After that, the US imperialists used to perpetrate espionage and subversion acts and commit armed acts of provocation against DPRK such as EC-121 event and Panmunjom event, but they were severely defeated every time. In the early 1990s when the socialist countries collapsed, the imperialist forces headed by US imperialists maneuvered to isolate and stifle DPRK. They rendered the situation of Korean peninsula strained, crying for “an ad hoc inspection” and “nuclear doubt” against DPRK. To cope with the prevailing situation, the great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung saw to it that a semi-war state was announced throughout the country in March 1993 in order to defend the security and sovereignty of the socialist country, and saw to it that the DPRK took the resolute step of declaring its withdrawal from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Therefore the talks began between DPRK and USA. At the first stage of DPRK-USA talks in New York in June, 1993, the joint statement reflecting DPRK’ assertion and intention was made public for the first time in history. And at the second stage of the talks in Geneva in July, both sides reaffirmed the New York Joint Statement. So the US attempts to press us were frustrated. When the US imperialists pressed us again imposing unfair premise, the great leader announced DPRK’ withdrawal from the International Atomic Energy Agency. Thanks to our countermeasures, the US imperialists withdrew the discussion for sanction against DPRK in UN Security Council, so the － 5 － third stage of DPRK-USA talks was opened on August, 1994. At the talks DPRK-USA agreement was signed and the US president sent a letter of assurance to the great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il. This was the historical success achieved by our army and people in the fierce confrontation. Thanks to the great leader’s iron will and belief, matchless courage and wisdom and stratagem, the US’ desperate nuclear-fuss and plots to isolate and stifle the DPRK were frustrated and DPRK has become a strong fortress of the anti-imperialist military front and defended the peace and security in the Korean peninsula and northeast Asia. We should add luster to his immortal exploits made to the human history and try to safeguard the peace and security of northeast Asia and the world under the wise leadership of the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un. － 6 －