Originality of Koguryo Castle Considered Through Ramparts Facilities Kim Kyong Chan The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il said as follows. “Historical sites and relics are objective reminders of what kind of culture our ancestors created, how they lived and how they developed.”(“KIM JONG IL SELECTED WORKS” Vol. 1 P. 29) The remains of castle hold an important place of the relics which Koguryo people recorded in history. It is because of that the relics of the castle show high sense of patriotism and creative talent of Koguryo people. Koguryo people paid great attention to the national defence so that they created the method of building a castle solidly. This essay explains the peculiarity of Koguryo castle culture through the research on the retaining wall and bastion, which are the excellent ramparts facilities. First, let us see the retaining castle. The retaining castle is a facility to strengthen the defence power of the castle gate. It has various shapes including wrapping the gate in the shape of a square or a half circle. Koguryo people paid great attention to build the castle not only as the defence facility but also to build it architecturally and aesthetically. There are Yunushan Castle and Heigoushan Castle in the area of Huanren Liaoning Province in China which was the first capital of Koguryo, where the retaining wall can be founded. Yunushan Castle is the Korobong-style castle(a castle style on a mountain), which was built with the advantage of the natural geographical condition of Yunushan which was about 8㎞ away northeastern from the Huanren District. The castle wall was built of 4-angled trimmed stones and it is 2 440m. Yunushan Castle has three gates. The east gate, the main gate of the castle is located between steep cliffs leaning to the east end of Yunushan Castle was recognized to be built for 4 years since the King Tongmyong founded the south castle wall. country. Heigoushan castle is the Korobong-style castle using the advantage of the natural geographical condition of Heigoushan at Sidaogou County in Xinbin District. It is 1 493m. It has 2 gates in the east and the north and retaining castle was built around the east gate. The east gate on the east wall is located on two parallel castle wall and the outer castle wall in higher than the inner one. To come into the castle, people should come to the southern gate on the outer castle and turn to the north and walk about the distance 20m between the two castle wall and enter the northern gate on the inner castle wall. This is the retaining castle facility using the two castles. Heigoushan Castle is supposed to have been built in the early period of Koguryo, judging from the style of castle and its facilities and the relics discovered in the castle. － 49 － From these relics, we can find that the people in Koryo built the castle defence facilities such as retaining castle in the early period of its foundation of the country. Since then the retaining castle became widely generalized and became changed and developed in various forms. The retaining castle can be found in the area of Jian in Jilin, the second capital of Koguryo, Guonei Castle, for king’s palace whose plane is rectangle and it’s 2 686m around. Guonei Castle has 6 gates; 2 gates on the eastern castle wall and one gate each on the southern and northern castle wall. The southern gate on the western wall has the retaining wall which was built by crossing the castle wall and the other gate has the retaining wall which was built by curving the one castle wall to the other side. Shanchengzishan Castle, the defence castle for the king’s palace, is a Korobong- style one on the high mountain which is about 2.5㎞ away northwestern from Guonei Castle. General length is 6 951m. the southern wall. This castle has 5 gates altogether; 2 gates each in the eastern and northern wall and one gate in The castles in the western area round Pyongyang which were built in the era of Koguryo have known for their retaining walls. The major castles are the Taesongsan Castle in Pyongyang, Pyongyang Castle, Huangryongsan Castle in Ryonggang County, Nampho City, Runghansan Castle in Kwaksan County, Ryongorisan Castle in Thaechon County North Phyongan Province, Jangsusan Castle in Sinwon County, Suyangsan Castle in Haeju City South Hwanghae Province, Hwangjusan Castle, Thaebaeksan Castle in Pyongsan County North Hwanghae Province. Hwangryongsan Castle, Runghansan Castle, Ryongorisan Castle, Jangsusan Castle, Hwangjusan Castle, Thaebaeksan Castle have the retaining wall which were built around the castle gate in the shape of semi-circle. The form of retaining wall on the Nam Gate of Taesongsan Castle is very peculiar. It was built as double castle. A big castle wall was built in front of the Nam Gate. The distance between a big castle and the Nam Gate is about 100m and it is 915m long. The retaining walls of Chilsong Gate and Hyonmu Gate do not block the front of the gate but make a role of retaining walls without narrowing both sides of castle walls. Second, let us see about Chi(bastion). Chi is the defence facility which stretches out the straight castle walls to destroy the approaching enemies in the front, the left and the right. So the more Chi was built, the higher the defence power of the castle became. Chi was built at the Koguryo Castles in the early period. This shows that the people in Koguryo built Chi facilities as well as the retaining wall. It can also see from the Chi of Heigoushan Castle. The northern castle wall of Heigoushan Castle is 175m long and the Chi was built at the end of this wall. Heigoushan Castle was built by using the natural stone wall, so the castle walls were built only － 50 － on the gentle gradient area. Consequently this castle has only one Chi. From this point, we can see that Koguryo people built Chi in the early period. There were lots of Chis in the castle walls on Guonei Castle. Although recent survey discovered 14 Chis originally there were 37 Chis. Among the relics of Koguryo Castle including in Shanchengzishan Castle and Yanzhu Castle(Dongta District, Liaoning Province) Xingshanshan Castle(Jianxia District, Liaoning Province)18 Chis were identified. the north-eastern area of China There are many castles with chis among the castles such as Suyangsan Castle(Haeju City, South Hwanghae Province), Thaepaeksan Castle(Pyongsan County, North Hwanghae Province), Hwangju Castle(Hwangju County, North Hwanghae Province), internal castle of Anju Castle(Anju City, South Pyongan Province), Mt. Paekmasango Castle (Phihyon County, North Pyongan Province), Tongju Castle(Tongrim County, North Pyongan Province) and the castles built in the north-western part of our country in the period of Koguryo. Especially, there are 65 Chis on Mt. Taesong Castle altogether. This shows that Chi was generalized in the castles of Koguryo as a castle facility. The retaining wall and Chi are the castle facility which were created and developed by the Koguryo people. From the period of Ancient Joson, our people began to build castle. Until now, in our country, many relics of castle of Ancient Joson were discovered, such as Chongamdong Bulwark(Taesong and Raknang District, Pyongyang), Hwangdae Castle(Kangdong County, Pyongyang) Bulwark(Raknang District, Pyongyang), Jitapri Bulwark(Jitap-ri, Pongsan County, North of Hwanghae Province) and Songhyonri Bulwark(Songhyon-ri, Onchon County, South Pyongan Province), Koyonri Bulwark(Koyon-ri, Hwangju County, North Hwanghae Province) and Toksan Bulwark(Unjong District, Pyongyang). However, among these castles of Ancient Joson, the retaining wall and Chi can not be found. The retaining wall and Chi cannot be found in the castles of other countries at that time. Although several countries in the world at the middle age constructed the castles actively and developed various kinds of castles and rampart facilities, it cannot be found the castles with excellent rampart facilities like the Koguryo castles. We should deeply excavate and research the relics of Koguryo so that we should actively contribute to systemizing the history and culture of Koguryo. － 51 －