Immortal Exploits of the Great Comrade Kim Jong Il Who Displayed the Vitality of the Juche Idea to the Full While Carrying Out the Cause of Building a Prosperous Socialist Country Ri Kum Ok The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il said as follows. “The Juche idea has become a solemn reality in our country. The history-making changes and great creations worked out by our people are precious fruit of this idea.”(“ON THE JUCHE PHILOSOPHY” P.100) What occupies the most brilliant position in undying exploits of the great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il is that he developed the Juche idea authored by the great President Kim Il Sung in depth and brought its vitality into full play in the effort to build a thriving socialist country. The Juche idea is, in a short, an idea that the masses of the people are the masters of the revolution and construction and have the power for pushing ahead with them, ie, one is the master of one’s own destiny and has the power for shaping it. A great ideology produces a great people and creates a great reality.  By giving the consciousness of being the masters of the world and their own destiny to the masses of the people once destined to be slaves and regarded merely as the objects of history and imparting the ideology of independence and creative spirit to them, the Juche idea stood them in the world arena as great people who are capable of hewing out their own destiny independently and creatively. The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il enriched and developed the idea into the guiding ideology of our revolution and fully demonstrated its justness and vitality in the building of a prosperous socialist country through his distinguished wisdom and energetic ideological and theoretical activities. Thanks to his outstanding leadership the history of building a Juche-based thriving socialist country could shine as glorious one of independence and creation in which the great vitality of the idea was brought into full scope and as annals brilliantly adorned with heroic events and epochal changes. The immortal exploit of the great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il is, first of all, that he ensured that the building of a thriving socialist country was carried on in accordance with the requirements of the Juche idea that the interests of the masses of the people be placed above all else and everything serve the demands of the masses of the people for independence and their interests. The Juche idea is an idea of viewing the people as the God. Regarding the people as the God is not an abstract concept on any account. It means holding the masses of the people as the most precious and dignified being in the world and subordinating everything to their will and interests. By systematizing the genuine idea of “The people are my God” created by President Kim Il Sung and enriching it, General Kim Jong Il raised the position of the masses of the people onto the highest level and unfolded the plan for building a thriving socialist country where the ideal and dream of the － 11 － people is realized. He defined the thriving socialist country as one whose national power is strong and in which everything goes well and its people live with nothing to envy in the world and devoted his all to building such a country. I can skip meals and endure cold and tiredness; I am satisfied if the people do not feel hunger and cold but are happy; I will make a sacrifice of myself for the happiness of the people and prosperity of the country throughout my life—this was the General’s lofty outlook on the people. Because he possessed absolute love of and trust in the people, the General regarded realizing their desire and demands as the general objective of building a thriving socialist country, guiding principle of the revolution and immutable criteria for creation. The legends about his affection for the people of bringing a flower into bloom even on a rock if the people want and the slogan of the love to people “We serve the people!” were originated in his viewpoint of giving importance to the people. He appraised a thing that was created to be new only when it was liked by the people, and favoured and held up officials who were called our such-and-such. Thanks to his lofty love of the people it has become an immutable principle in the process of building a thriving socialist country to create things for the good of the people, as required by them and to be liked by them. In our country what are liked by the people are regarded as the most precious treasures and monumental structures and edifices are named after the people. The People’s Theatre, the People’s Open-air Ice Rink, Rungna People’s Pleasure Ground have been built as ideal service facilities for the cultural and emotional life of the people. And it is none other than the people that live in modern houses in Mansudae and Changjon streets that showcase the features of the thriving socialist country. The monument which the interests of the people are regarded as a top priority and their demands are satisfactorily materialized is a crystallization of the Juche idea, an idea of the love of the people, born of the patriotic devotion of the General who was always on board the people-bound train throughout his life. True to the intention of the General, the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un declared that it was the firm determination of our Party to ensure that our people, who are the best in the world and who had remained faithful to the Party in the face of all manner of difficulties, did not have to tighten their belts again, but enjoyed all the benefits of socialism. Today, our fatherland is rising as a Juche-based socialist power admired by the world demonstrating more evidently the superiority and vitality of the Juche idea, an idea of genuine love of man, as it is led by the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un who has inherited the outlook on the people of the Generalissimos on the highest level. The other exploit of General Kim Jong Il is that he saw to it that the building of a thriving socialist country was conducted on the basis of the Juche idea, thoroughly on our own way and by relying on the strength and wisdom of our people. Whereas defending independence leads to patriotism, worship of big powers and reliance on foreign forces to national ruin. The history of our nation whose development was severely stunted due to worship of big powers and dogmatism resulting in it being deprived of its sovereignty by foreign － 12 － forces clearly shows the truth that independence alone is the only way for existence of our people. The Juche idea is a great idea which clarified the truth that the masses of the people are the masters of the revolution and construction and have the power to push them ahead. Upholding the banner of the Juche idea General Kim Jong Il put an end to worship of big powers and reliance on foreign forces which had hampered the independent development of our nation and opened the road to independence to build a thriving socialist country in our own way and by our own efforts. Our cause of building a thriving socialist country is an untrodden path fraught with unprecedentedly arduous trials and difficulties. In order to stamp out our Republic, the fortress of socialism in the world, the US and other imperialist reactionaries challenged the cause of building a thriving socialist country by enlisting political and military pressure, economic sanctions, ideological and cultural infiltration and all other conceivable means. Such being the case, to build a thriving socialist country is impossible without independent faith and will. However, we were able to follow only the road of victory surmounting all challenges by our own strength as we were guided by the Juche idea, an idea of independence, and encouraged by the General’s independent faith and pluck. It was his political stand that independence should naturally be the spiritual mainstay in the homeland of the Juche idea. As it has been imbued with the spirit of independence provided by the Juche idea, our country could hold a position in the international arena as a dignified country which launches artificial earth satellite Now the technology related with artificial satellite is a monopoly of a few developed countries and even the countries which have their satellite rely on others for their launch. However, our scientists, technicians and workers successfully launched Kwangmyongsong 1, 2 and 3-2. These multi-stage launch vehicles and satellites are our proud products of which all elements were domestically made ranging from our manufacture, assembly, our launching site and our control after the blast-off. All the miracles wrought in industrial sector including the Juche-based industry in the recent years amid the flames of a fresh revolutionary upsurge are a result of the independent mental power of our people and a monument to the victory of the Juche idea, an idea of independence. In the past our nation, though it boasted of its time-honoured history and brilliant culture, was a miserable colonial weak nation which had to regard worship of big powers and national ruin as its fate because it was not given with correct leadership and possessed of strength to defend it. But now our nation presents as dignified under the banner of the Juche idea as an independent people and a full-fledged political and military power which nobody can dare provoke. As they are led by the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un who is carrying forward the immortal revolutionary exploits of the great Generalissimos Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il who created the Juche idea and raised the dignity of the country and people onto the highest level, our people will always achieve only victory and glory under the unfurled banner of the Juche idea. － 13 －