Understanding of the Essence of the Information Organization Sin Sun Hui The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il said as follows. “As man’s ideological consciousness of independence and creative ability develop and his role increases, social wealth increases and social relations improve. In historical development, each generation starts with the social wealth and social relations created by its predecessors, in other words, with the existing objective conditions, and uses these. These objective conditions have an important effect on social development, but these conditions themselves are the historical product of man`s independent, creative and conscious activities.” (“KIM JONG IL SELECTED WORKS” Vol.13 P. 434~435) It is the most important and primary issue for expanding of the theory on information organization to solve correctly the essence of the information organization. The word “information organization”is the name that has been applied to the analysis processing and arrangement of the information resources. So far, the term“bibliographic control”had been used in it for a long time. However, the more motion pictures, sound recordings, computer files appeared among the information resources, the more limitation of the term “bibliographic control” revealed. It is because the word“biblio-”is included only the meaning of traditional book. Thus nowadays the term “information organization” was replaced with “bibliographic control”. not “bibliographic data.” In the information organization  the data described the it’s resources is called “metadata ” This paper aims to elucidate the correct view and attitude to the information organization. In the past, many attempts were made to elucidate the essence of the information organization. Bibliographic control was defined by Elaine Svenonius as “the skill or art of organizing knowledge (information) for retrieval.” retrieval of bibliographic data.” Richard P. Smiraglia defined it as“encompassing the creation, storage, manipulation and Arlene G. Taylor defined as follows: “bibliographic control (increasingly referred to as information organization) is the process of describing information resources and providing name, title, and subject access to the descriptions, resulting in records that serve as surrogates for the actual items of recorded information.” As you see, the preceding theories were not considered it by placing its motive force at the centre. Any definitions did not clarify its motive force and did not consider its purpose by placing it at the centre. This is because the preceding theories regarded the information organization as a natural historical process which changes and develops due to material and economic factors, and were based on the principle of a materialist outlook on history. These definitions do not provide a scientific elucidation on the essence of the information － 100 － organization. This is because with these definitions it is impossible to explain correctly what emerged the information organization and how to develop it in future. The primary limitation of the preceding theories on the essence of the information organization is herein. The second limitation of the preceding theories on the essence of the information organization is that it did not elucidate comprehensively its scope. In other words, it did not make clear in which institutions the information organization take place. Svenonius and Smiraglia regarded the information organization as only the library affairs and Taylor expanded it as the work of institutions such as libraries, archives, museums, etc. But according to their view and attitude the information organization is limited to the affairs of the information service institutions. library and museum. Of course, it is the fact that throughout history, the information organization started with the However, today it is not purely limited to the information service institutions, and takes place in all the institutions which produce and circulate the information. This can be proved by CIP. CIP is the abbreviation of “Cataloging In Publication”. It means that the cataloging work is done in publication stage. In many countries the metadata of information resources is created in its publication stage CIP is the work of printing on the back side of the book title page the catalogue which is created in publishing course or of storing in electronic database. In addition, when all the electronic articles are offered in publisher its metadata is specified and Today, CIP data allows record sharing through online between publishers, bookshops and through CIP. structured. libraries. This clearly shows that the information organization is extended to all institutions which produce From its beginning, the information organization has appeared due to the social need to use the First of all, the information organization takes place for the convenient use of the social and circulate the information. information conveniently. information resource. What we mean the social information resource is the information resource which is produced and distributed socially based on the knowledge resource of humankind. It is said that researchers should read at least 1 500 pages everyday to survey the research achievements of the specified field in order to carry out a certain project. But in fact it is impossible for researchers to read such a lot of documents nor can they know what kind of information resources will be produced newly, and where and how to use them. The activity to deal with such difficulties is just an information organization, and is conducted by various types of information management institutions. － 101 － The range of the information management institutions is extended such as publishing house, bookshop, library, museum and so on which produce, circulate and offer the information resource. The professional officials of those institutions enable users to access to the information resource more conveniently by cataloging and arranging the resource including analysis and classification of the social information resource and indication of the distributed positions. The information organization also takes place for the reasonable management of information resource. Without catalogue made through the information organization, the information management institutions can not keep the information resource reasonably. They can survey with the catalogue how and how much the information resource they keep will be produced, circulated and stored, and can also realize the automation of information resource management with the catalogue. Accordingly, we can define it as analyzing, classifying, processing and arranging the information resource for the convenient utility and management of the information professional activity. If we strengthen the motive force of the information organization and enhance its role, we can not only avail ourselves of the given objective conditions but also turn unfavourable objective conditions into favourable ones and ensure the development of the information organization. We must always keep in our minds that only when we strengthen the motive force and enhance its role on the basis of the Juche-orientated view of the information organization can we put the theory and practice of it on the scientific basis. － 102 －