Socio-Political Organism, the Most Developed Social Group Ho Chol Su The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il gave an original definition of the position of the socio-political organism among various social groups on the basis of the scientific analysis of the socio-political organism. The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il said as follows. “The socio-political organism is a collective which has reached the highest stage in the history of the development of the social community.” (“KIM JONG IL SELECTED WORKS” Vol.12 P. 407) A socio-political organism was formed in a certain stage of development of the popular masses’ struggle to realize their independence. The development history of mankind is the history of the struggle for independence of the popular masses and at the same time, of the constant growth of the united strength of the popular masses, the subject of history. Our people have formed the most solid socio-political organism during the struggle to realize independence. A socio-political organism is a social group that reached the highest stage of its development.  The reason is that it is, first of all, a group that is organized with the high aim to complete realize independence of the popular masses, which is the highest one. There are many different types of social groups in society.  People live in a certain social group. There are progressive and reactionary groups among social groups. The most important criterion deciding whether it is progressive and revolutionary is, above all, how much it reflects the independent interests of the people. The progressive social group has its interest in realizing independence of the popular masses, whereas the reactionary one in trampling on, and restraining the people’s independence. It is the popular masses themselves that is keen on realizing independence of the popular masses. The popular masses have struggled to realize their independence throughout the long history of mankind and they are still doing so. to the stage of development of revolution. What extent it considers it as its aim to realize independence of popular masses varies according Popular masses struggled to escape from the slavery exploitation and oppression in the slavery society and to free themselves from the feudal exploitation and oppression in the feudal society. And in the capitalist society, they also struggled to get rid of the capital exploitation and oppression and this led to the birth of socialist idea reflecting the desire and demand of the popular masses including the working class. Thanks to the socialist idea, popular masses have become conscious and organized, so that they can shape their own destiny in an independent and creative way. The socialist ideas are originated by distinguished leaders of working class. It can be called that the history of the socialist movement is a history of working-class leaders creating and developing － 39 － socialist ideas, a history in which these ideas have been applied to transform the world. However, all socialist ideas do not play the same role in the activities of a socio-political organism. Since the preceding socialist idea considered it as the fundamental aim of the revolution to emancipate classes, so they thought that revolution came to an end once the socialist system was established. That is why the social group which was formed on the basis of the preceding socialist idea could not bring forward complete realization of independence of the popular masses as the fundamental aim of revolution. However, the Juche-oriented socialist idea is a through revolutionary idea in that it considers it the fundamental aim of the revolution to realize independence, which is the life and soul of a social being and asserts that the revolution should be pursued to the end until it is fully realized. The Juche-oriented socialist idea is also a perfect revolutionary doctrine: it shows the way for people to become absolute masters of the world and of their own destiny by completely transforming nature, society and human beings themselves in accordance with the essential social quality of men who want to live and develop independently, as well as the way for the lasting happiness and prosperity of mankind to be achieved. The socio-political organism which depends on the Juche-oriented socialist idea and conducts activities with it as pabulum is a socio-political community which strives with the aim to realize independence of the working people. So far no group organized with that high aim has been and could have been existed in history. The integral whole of the leader, the party and the masses that has been formed in our country today is the most perfect and solid socio-political organism, a socio-political community struggling with a high aim to realize completely independence of the popular masses. Here lies the reason why the socio-political organism is the social group in the highest stage of development. Another reason of that is because it is a social group that has the strength to completely realize independence of people. The might of a social group is in its unity. Only a united social group can carry out vigorous struggle with powerful vitality. Whether a social group can defend itself or not entirely depends on its unity. Any kinds of social groups strive for unity, but none of them has achieved it completely in the The history of mankind is the history of struggle to realize independence of the popular masses and at the same time, the history of constant growth of the united strength of people who is the subject of history. The desire of the people to achieve a complete unity came true with the birth of the socio-political organism. Since the socio-political organism consists of many people it needs a focal point which has unified command of the activities of the social organism. Just as man’s brain is the centre of his life, so the leader, the top brain of the socio-political The leader is the center which analyses, synthesizes and coordinates the interests of the masses － 40 － past. organism. and their desire for independence; at the same time, he is the centre which has unified command of their creative activities to put them into effect. The party is the core of the masses, which is rallied closely around the leader organizationally and ideologically and so it is the pivot of the independent socio-political organism. When individuals are united organizationally and ideologically with the leader, the centre of the socio-political organism, through party organizations and share the same destiny with the party, they will acquire an immortal socio-political integrity. Therefore if the people’s masses are to form a socio-political integrity, they should be firmly united organizationally and ideologically around the leader under the guidance of the party. The socio-political organism has only the power to completely realize independence of the popular masses. This is because the socio-political organism is the most conscious and organized social group. In order to fully display the might of the popular masses, they have to be ideologically aware and organizationally united firmly. The strength of the popular masses that is conscious and organized is the great power which is qualitatively distinct from and cannot be compared with the strength of individual arithmetically added together. This strength is the independent vitality that makes the popular masses free from all kinds of oppression and subordination of the society and nature and realizes complete independence. In this way the socio-political organism is a social group in the highest stage of development because it put forward its high aim to completely realize independence of people and has the strength to carry out. The socio-political organism is the most valuable and proud achievement made through the long period of people’s struggle for independence. The socio-political organism should be constantly consolidated and developed because it surely leads to the way to completely realize independence of the popular masses. We will have to strengthen the single-hearted unity of our Party and revolutionary ranks rallied around the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un in every possible way and give full play to its might so that we can push ahead the construction of the thriving nation as fast as possible. － 41 －