The Socialist Political System is a Superior Political System which Provides the Most Worthwhile and Happiest Life for the Masses of Working People Choe Kwang Gwon The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il said as follows. “Because our socialism serves the popular masses, our people regard socialism as the cradle of their lives and of their happiness, and they entrust their destiny entirely to socialism.” (“KIM JONG IL SELECTED WORKS” Vol. 11 P. 38) As a social political system is a decisive factor which determines the social position and role of people in the socio-political life, it should be established for providing a worthwhile and happy life to the masses of working people, the driving force of history. Only a social political system which can provide a worthwhile and happy life to the masses of working people can be said to be a genuinely popular, superior system. However, in the past when a handful of reactionary class took power and established a social political system going for their interests, the independence of the masses of working people was mercilessly trampled and to lead a worthwhile and happy life was their long-cherished desire. Such a desire could be realized when a socialist political system had been established. In a socialist political system where all policies of a state are enforced according to the intentions and interests of the masses of working people, they lead a worthwhile and happy life to their heart’s content. The first reason why the socialist political system is a superior one which provides the most worthwhile and happiest life for the masses of working people is that the system practically provides all political freedom and right for the masses of working people. To enjoy political freedom and right is a basic condition for leading a worthwhile and happy life. Only when they have political freedom and right, can the masses of working people decide and solve important issues arising in all fields of social life according to their demands and interests as the master of power. First of all, the political freedom and right enjoyed by the masses of working people under the socialist political system is fully expressed in exercising power. Under the socialist political system, the power is in the hand of the masses of working people, and they exercise power through representative organs elected by them. The socialist political system provides both the right to vote and the right to be elected for the broad masses of working people without any limitation attached. To hold the right to vote and the right to be elected should be one of the main rights in the social political life. The right to vote and the right to be elected make it possible for the masses of working people to participate in building state power by electing their true representatives as a member of a power organ or themselves being elected as a member. Under the capitalist political system, the right to vote and the right to be elected of the masses of working people are grossly limited or trampled. In the capitalist political system ages at which a person can vote or be elected are set up differently and highly, and there are dozens of qualifying － 35 － conditions for electorate such as the state of property, learning career, and the length of dwelling period, which excludes the broad masses of working people without money and jobs from voting. However, under our own style socialist political system which is centered on the popular masses, the masses of working people can hold the right to vote and the right to be elected regardless of sex, nation, occupation, dwelling period, property, education, party affiliation, political view and religious belief, when they reach the age of 17. The advantage of our own style socialist political system centred on the popular masses was clearly proved through the election for the deputies to the 13th Supreme People’s Assembly held in March, 2014. According to the reports, 99.97% of the entire voters on the electorate list participated in the election and 100% of the participants voted in favour of the deputy candidates. This fact alone has shown that our people not only set up the power organs with their true representatives but also take an active part in the state management. Secondly, the political freedom and right which the masses of working people enjoy under the socialist political system are expressed in the freedom of political activities. The important thing in doing political activities is to hold the freedom of speech, the press, assembly, demonstration and association. Speech, the press, assembly, demonstration and association are all the important political activities of humans who are a social being. The masses of working people do political activities and realize their political independence through the freedom of speech, the press, assembly, demonstration and association. Under the socialist political system, the masses of working people are granted the freedom of speech, the press, assembly, demonstration and association. Also the socialist political system provides enough conditions, which guarantees the practical freedom of political activities of the masses of working people. However, under the capitalist political system, the freedom of political activities of the masses of working people is merely a deception. Although the masses of working people are said to have the freedom of speech, the press, assembly, demonstration and association, they are not actually provided due to the conditions of restrictions, reservations and oppression. What is worse, the majority of physical means such as printing houses, meeting places, etc. are owned by the exploiting class, and progressive ones are forced to close, so the possibility to realize the freedom of political activities of the masses of working people is totally deprived. As described above, the freedom of political activities of the masses of working people in the capitalist political system is idle talk. Under the socialist political system, the political freedom and right enjoyed by the masses of working people are expressed in the fact that they hold the freedom of religion and the right to make a complaint and petition. The second reason why the socialist political system is a superior one which provides the most worthwhile and happiest life for the masses of working people is that the system provides a happy material and cultural life for the masses of working people. Human beings demand material means necessary for life together with political life, and when an affluent material and cultural life is provided, they feel worth and happiness in the social life. － 36 － In the socialist political system which is based on collectivism, the masses of working people entrust all their destinies to a socialist state. A socialist state has a duty to hold responsibility for and take care of people’s livelihood as the owner of means of production. As a state holds responsibility for and take care of people’s material and cultural life in the socialist political system, the masses of working people lead a happy, care-free life. First of all, all working people have stable jobs and work happily and usefully. To provide stable jobs for all people is a secure guarantee for helping them leading a happy material and cultural life and doing independent, creative activities. The demand of working people for jobs in the socialist political system is legally guaranteed by the government and also economy which constantly develops.  In our country, anybody who reaches workable age can be provided a job by the state according to their ability and talent. Our working people lead a happy working life, being provided with stable jobs, wonderful condition of safety, distribution according to the quantity and quality of work done and sufficient rest. In the socialist political system, all working people never care about jobs but work with enthusiasm and talent at stable occupations. However, in the capitalist political system, hundreds of thousands of working people wander about streets without having any jobs. Care about jobs always drives the masses of working people into instable life. Unemployment and poverty is unavoidable in the capitalist political system. In the capitalist political system the exploiting class dismisses workers recklessly even when their profit slightly decreases. As all means of production are in the hand of the masses of working people and a state runs economy in a planned way in the socialist political system, working people even do not know the word “unemployment” and lead a happy working life being provided with various necessary conditions for working satisfactorily. Secondly, in the socialist political system, all working people lead a civilized life with no care about food, clothing and housing. Food, clothing and housing are the most necessary conditions of human life and form a core of human’s material and cultural life. Without food, clothes and houses, humans could maintain their physical life , to say nothing of any kind of material and cultural life. In the socialist political system based on collectivism, where a state cares for people’s life, every member of a society leads a happy material life with no concern about food, clothing and housing. Nobody knows the words such as “poverty” and “starvation”, and all people are equally well-off. However, in the capitalist political system which is based upon private ownership, “the richer get richer, the poor get poorer” accelerates due to the differences between classes. The phenomenon of “the rich get richer, the poor get poorer” encourages the lifestyle of law of jungle, and all kinds of social evils such as murder, robbery, etc. are all around in a society, which makes people tremble with horror and uneasiness. Under the socialist political system, today, our people lead the most civilized life in the world.  The great Comrades Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il made it a policy of the Party and the state to work for people and the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un, the faithful successor of the great － 37 － Generalissimos carry out a people-loving and people-centred policy in which the interest and convenience of the people are given preference. Recently in our country, thanks to the people-loving policy of the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un Changjon Street, Unha Street for Scientists and blocks of flats for the teachers of Kim Il Sung University have been wonderfully completed at the highest level. Cultural amenities such as Rungna People’s Pleasure ground, Ryugyong Health Complex, Munsu Water Park, Mirim Riding Club and Masikryong Ski Resort have been built in many places of the country, which have been arousing admiration from the world people. Also, in the socialist political system, all the working people live without any concerns about receiving medical care and sending their children to school. Today our country has a system of universal free medical care and is implemented with the Party’s lines of preventive medical care, so our people have no worries about treatment of diseases and have realized long-cherished desire for longevity free of all kinds of diseases. Thanks to the system of universal free medical care and the Party lines of preventive medical care, a great success was made in increasing the average life span by 15.7 years, that is, from the average life span of 58.3 to 74 in the period from 1960 to the early 1980s in our country. Recently in our country, modern hospitals such as Ryugyong Dental Hospital, Okryu Children’s Hospital and the mammary glands tumor institution of Pyongyang Maternity Hospital have been newly built. These hospitals contribute to protecting and improving the health of our people and children. And the universal compulsory education, universal free education, part-time education of our country enable the masses of working people to learn everything to their heart’s content. Therefore, we don’t know the word for illiterate. However, in the capitalist political system, there are a large number of people who had no education for short of money, and the number of the illiterate increases with the passage of time. Since the medical care and free education of our socialist political system centered on the popular masses are the most advantageous systems, people all over the world cannot hide their envy. The superiority and vitality of the socialist political system was definitely proved in our country. Today the masses of working people in our socialist political system wage a vigorous struggle to build up a powerful, prosperous socialist nation which was the lifelong will and desire of the great leaders Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il under the wise leadership of the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un. A powerful, prosperous socialist country means a country with a strong national power where everything prospers and the people live happily with no envy. Our army and people will surely build up a Juche-oriented powerful and prosperous socialist country on this land by upholding the ideas and leadership of the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un with infinite loyalty. － 38 －