The Main Characteristics of the Grand People’s Study House Pak Chol The great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung and the great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il built the Grand People’s Study House(GPSH) as a great library which is a socio-educational center and pushed forward the intellectualization of the whole society to let our people stand on the peak of the human civilization. The construction of the GPSH was a great event that brought a radical turn in the history of libraries in our country and, at the same time, was a historical landmark-that opened the new all-people-studying era that could never be found in any other countries in the world. The great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung said as follows. “The Grand People’s Study House is a monumental creation of which we can be proud before the entire world; it is one of our people’s precious and treasured possessions. It is not a simple library but an edifice of science and education, just like a university.” (“KIM IL SUNG WORKS” Vo1. 37 P. 367) Then, what are the main characteristics of the GPSH different from other libraries and college? First, it is the central socio-educational base. Socio-educational base means a studying center in which people can do the social studying. The GPSH is, first of all, a wide socio-educational base that is not limited to the regularized educational system. In the regular education, they educate a certain group of people with a certain educational system in accordance with the technological aspects. But in the GPSH all the people can study, regardless to the age,  the educational system, major subject, educational level, and region according to their desire and requirements by various methods appropriate to them, The GPSH is a socio-educational center of this kind and here lies one characteristic distinguished from the school education. over the function of the library. scientific technology. The Grand People’s Study House, as the base of the social education, is also the one which took This library accomplishes the role of the social studying organizer and the diffuser of the new It mainly provides the social members of the areas concerned with services like offering and lending various documents, as the regional base of social studying, different from school education. GPSH, which takes over such functions, fulfills its mission as the central leading organ which gives academic and methodological guidance to all levels of libraries as the central base for the social education and conducts administrative guidance to them. Such characteristics of the GPSH bring the substantial benefit of the social-education in the socialist society of our own style, in which everything serves the popular masses, into reality at the highest standard. Genuine social education for the working masses cannot exist in the exploitative society, as in － 92 － that society the cultural institutes and public facilities are in the hands of the individual capitalists and the administration and operation have become the means of profit and the wealth of only the individuals. Second, the GPSH is the central base for the intellectualization of the whole society, and the correspondence course university for the working people. The great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung paid a visit to the GPSH on Sep 26 1981 and gave an original explication that the GPSH is not a simple library but the central base for the intellectualization of the whole society and the correspondence course university for the working people. And our great General also gave a precious instruction in the letter to the participants in the national conference of activists in educational work that the GPSH is one of the central base for the intellectualization of the whole society and the correspondence course university for the working people. This original explication to the GPSH by the great leaders is the most genuine formulation to the characteristics, features and mission of the GPSH completely different from the libraries of the past, and the great idea which lit up the essence and whole aspect of the GPSH. Today, although the advent of the E-library due to the modern information technology and the rapid development of the science and technology have largely changed the position and the role of a library, it hasn’t yet got rid of the former style of reading service. Only could the great leaders, who put forth the program of the intellectualization of the whole society to bring up our people to the most dignified and comprehensively developed human beings, provide a modern study palace of our own style completely different from the former libraries and explicate its character and mission as the central base for the intellectualization of the whole society and the correspondence course university. Their explication contains the idea that the GPSH has got rid of the styles of the past, whose main function was to lend books to the residents in certain areas and let them read, and has become an important education base to develop the general knowledge of the working people into the university graduate’s level It also contains the profound idea that the GPSH pushes forward the campaign to realize the intellectualization of the whole society purposefully, consciously, actively and with great force on a national scale. The campaign to bring up all the members of the society to the comprehensively developed human beings with the cultural knowledge of the university graduate’s level cannot be realized only by the limited higher education and furthermore cannot be fully realized spontaneously without any social studying center. The great leaders opened up radiant vistas to accomplish the task by presenting new idea.  They said that the GPSH, which has enough educational forces and powerful material foundation must be the central base for the intellectualization of the whole society. The GPSH is also the correspondence course university for the working people. The great leaders taught that the GPSH is the correspondence course university. － 93 － And their explication expounded the mission of the GPSH. The mission of the GPSH is that GPSH is not only for the regular school education but also the socio-educational center for the working people, coordinating education base where anyone can learn by their will with no relations with their career, profession and education level. In order to realize the intellectualization of the whole society and develop the science and technology of the country stably, we must simultaneously develop the professional education system and the most general and universal correspondence education system through which working people of the whole country can get the expert knowledge of their own field while they work. The great leaders had a deep insight into these requirements of the development of technological education, and gave an original explication that the GPSH is a grand palace for the general and universal new correspondence education and a correspondence course university in terms of educating people and educational content. The building of the correspondence course university is an original discovery that brought about the new socio-educational style which has never been known in the history of the human education and opened the new era of the correspondence course education. It is also another exploit made by the great leaders in the history of love for the people. Third, the GPSH is not a mere library but an all-people-studying palace where the working people of the country can come and study. usage. and major can study in full conditions. Normally a library is limited to the local region and thus, has limitations in its scale, stacks and But in the GPSH, people from all over the country with various professions, levels of education The GPSH is a studying palace where all people study, different from the usual libraries that lend readers the books and keep the volumes in stacks. The GPSH is a palace of education that people are taught the knowledge of all fields like social science, natural science and technological engineering by various educational styles and methods in accordance to the desire and requirements of the working people. It is also a palace that the new science and technology should be generalized and thus contributes to the development of the national science and technology. Another feature distinguished from the normal library is that it is a palace of technological education which not only serves people with books but also educates them with modern technology and thus, contributes to the development of technology. A Library has many reading rooms and mainly serves with books but  the GPSH has teaching rooms of different field including social science  and natural science, reading rooms classified according to academic aspects, question-and-answer rooms, stacks of thousands of volumes and large-scale electronic database. The management is also highly-modernized with modernistic equipment. The Chairman of Central Council of the Russian Peace and Unification Party, after visiting the GPSH said “Making a round of the GPSH, I am more confident that the 21st century is Korea’s. The leaders in Korea are proceeding revolution and construction on the stand point of serving the － 94 － I witnessed the advantage of the socialism of the Korean style through the GPSH.” The director of the “Worker’s World” said “the GPSH is a good evidence to show that the Thesis on Socialist Education is being carried out brilliantly along the line of 3 revolutions of the Workers’ Party of Korea. In the USA, such great buildings are all for big enterprises like a bank, and there’s nothing for people. Korea is a developing country but it’s much more developed than the western countries from this As such, the GPSH is not only the national central socio-educational base, central base for the intellectualization of the whole society, the correspondence course university for the working people, but also a university-like palace where all people can come and study. It is also a palace which is highly modernized with full studying conditions and facilities. It is our Korea-style peculiar study base that differs from the libraries of the past and this is the unique characteristics of the GPSH and has its own validity, originality and advantage. people. point” － 95 －