General Understanding of Online Journalism Editing Kim Chol Hwan Now the demand for new information is extremely increasing with the rapid development of science and technology. In this respect, many countries turn to the method of conveying news and information through online that has plenty of advantages in exchanging information. The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il said as follows. “The role of the mass media must be enhanced.” (“KIM JONG IL SELECTED WORKS” Vol. 10. P. 37) website. Online journalism is an important one of journalism.  It is of an important significance to have a correct understanding about online journalism editing in order to actively improve the work of online journalism and make the online a powerful means in propagating our idea and culture. Online journalism editing is the work of formulating contents and style of online journalism In other words, it is the work of formulating online journalism propaganda plan, securing and reviewing the editing information and editing online homepage. Online journalism editing has certain characteristics compared to the traditional news editing. First, the characteristic of the online journalism editing is flexibility in information arrangement.  This means the editing information are arranged and compiled regardless of its given order. This is called nonlinear layout. This means that assuming every editing information is laid in one line of arrangement process, you can skip some of the processes without having to go through every process in editing. But in traditional news editing, linear editing is used. Linear editing means laying out every editing information in accordance with the given order of arrangement process. In this linear editing, you should keep the order of information arrangement and include all process to complete the editing. For example, in order to replace certain editing information in the newspaper space, you should redo the editing from A to Z. Radio or TV broadcasting also uses linear editing meaning they are laid out in time order. So if you want to replace programs that had been already prepared with different time limits, you should draw up a whole new program. But in online journalism editing, the pages are linked in supertext style, so you can go directly to a certain page without having to go through other pages and change its contents and style or insert a new webpage. Second, the characteristic of the online Journalism editing is the great speediness in editing. Online journalism editing is quick compared to the traditional news editing. Its speediness is shown in three ways. It finds its expression in editing a new occurrence or event immediately. Newspapers, radio and TV broadcasting is edited according to the space and time, so it takes － 96 － much time and effort to insert new editing information once they are already laid out. But online journalism editing is not laid out in any fixed space or time so you can ensure speediness in carrying news by going into the certain webpage or inserting new webpage. Online journalism editing also enables to upgrade its contents instantly. In traditional news editing, the cycle of upgrading the contents of newspaper is 1 day to 1 week and the cycle is one day for radio or TV. But in online journalism editing, the contents are constantly upgraded every minute or second. Online journalism editing also enables to ensure rapidity in all processes by using computer. Now, of course the computers are also widely used in traditional news editing but not in all processes. technology. For example, the review of the large-sized Korean paper is done through space prints instead of computers in news editing so printing takes up some time. But in online Journalism editing, every process such as planning, information gathering and processsing, selection, review and laying out is done with the computers and online so the speediness is ensured in editing. Third, the characteristic of online journalism editing is the demand for highly developed Online is the up-to-date technology that uses online, web, electronic documents, multimedia, supertext, digital information data and therefore, all these technologies are duly used in online journalism editing. Online technology provides favorable conditions to transmissions and collections of editing information. Web technology helps to set up website and webpage. Electronic document provides high level of the contents and styles of document editing. Multimedia and supertext diversifies the medium of editing information and facilitates the connection and arrangement of editing information and webpage. The editing processes of online journalism have some similarities with the traditional news as well as its unique process. For example, the planning of editing, collecting and selecting as well as the reviewing and polishing of editing information are the similarities with traditional news but webpage editing is the unique process in online Journalism editing. Online journalism editing starts from planning, securing and selecting, reviewing and polishing of editing information and finishes with editing webpage. The most important thing in online journalism editing is the planning of editing. This is essential in educating people politically and ideologically as well as in dynamically pushing ahead with the revolution and construction. It is also useful in smashing the false propaganda of the imperialists and building up the favorable domestic public opinion. The key is to promptly grasp the issues and targets of great importance by the WPK, the top news in foreign and domestic situation as well as the matters of primary concern in people’s lives. Accordingly order and steps of news propaganda should be set reasonably. These are the important processes in elevating the penetration and effectiveness of the online journalism activities. － 97 － The next important thing is to secure editing information. Editing information is collected through coverage and writing activities of journalists and websites of news agencies and traditional news organizations. It is also collected from websites of other organizations and individuals. The third important thing is to select, review and polish the editing information. The department of editing should select the editing information of the day on the basis of having secured all necessary information and then the information should be reviewed and polished. The editing information is selected depending on following principles; whether it is in accordance with the requirement of the Party’s policy and the trend of the development situation or not, whether it is pressing news or not, whether it is a refined article and program or not. Then the information is reviewed and polished on the basis of the Party’s policy, scientific accuracy and authenticity. The next important thing is arranging webpage. In the online journalism editing, the information is mutually exchanged between the news organization and recipient through computer screens so diversification and updating of webpage is the key in attracting recipients. Webpages are superconnected pages that present and convey the contents and styles of online information in physical forms. its own unique characteristics. Webpages carry various informations and news, similar to the newspaper space. But it also has It is fairly safe in structure and style. The editing style of the newspaper space varies according to the publishing cycle. Newspaper editors work out new arrangement plans in every number and arrange editing information. Therefore, the shape and position of editing information as well as the style and method of the title varies in every publishing cycle. But the structure of webpage is fairly fixed. Once completed, the design of the webpage last long before being redesigned. Some webpages remain unchanged in their design even after a few years. In the completed webpage, the certain articles or positions of editing information is relatively fixed. The only changes are made in certain articles or editing information. Another characteristic of webpage is the skipping in reading. In reading a newspaper, the pages are usually turned according to the numerical order.  But webpages are superconnected so the online users can skip any pages as much as they want. In case of important news, its title is edited on the front page, making it easier to read it with just The next characteristic is flexibility to adjust the size and numbers of pages.   The newspaper space remains fairly unchanged in its size and numbers. This means every newspaper is fixed in its size – be it big or small – and the number of pages remain almost the same. But in webpages, the sizes and numbers can be easily adjusted according to the amount of one click. information. － 98 － The front page plays an important role in webpages and it is also called as homepage. The homepage is the guiding page of the certain contents of news propaganda. The basic of webpage editing is the editing of the homepage because the homepage decides the contents and styles of other webpages. Here, it is important to select various categories. The main categories are themes, services and two-way programs. The themes articles divide contents of the webpage according to the themes. The themes can be divided into politics, economy, culture and military so that if you click any of those themes, the homepage will switch to a different webpage for you to read the contents of the theme. In the website of the traditional news, the themes can be divided according to the contents of the means of traditional news. The services category can be divided into search of database and public information. The two-way communication category is divided into electronic platform, electronic billboard, chatting rooms and mails. The major thing in editing homepage is giving good introduction of the main programs of the day. its importance. This is done through editing of titles of given information. In general, the titles of information are edited in the homepage and their contents are edited in other webpages. In case a recipient is interested in a certain title, the person can click the item and read the article in another webpage. The titles in homepage are usually arranged from top to bottom or from left to right according to The titles on top left attract the attention better than the ones on right bottom. This is the principle in deciding the positions of the titles that should be read first and later. It is also important to use appropriate fonts, drawings and colors in order to suggest the importance and characters of the titles. We should have a correct understanding of the online journalism editing and carry out our honorable duties and missions to contribute to giving publicity to the greatness of the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un. － 99 －