The Immortal Exploits in External Activities of the Great Leader Comrade Kim Jong Il to Defend and Advance the Socialist Cause Kim Tong Ha The respected Comrade Kim Jong Un said as follows.  “True to Kim Il Sung’s instructions, Kim Jong Il through his strenuous leadership opened the June 15 reunification era and a new phase in the development of foreign relations. Thanks to his remarkable wisdom, unexcelled leadership ability, iron will and superhuman devotion, our socialist country, Songun Korea, is emitting its brilliance all over the world along with the august name of Kim Il Sung, and our people have become a dignified people who are shaping their destiny on their own terms, filled with infinite national pride and self-confidence.” (“THE GREAT KIM IL SUNG IS THE ETERNAL LEADER OF OUR PARTY AND OUR PEOPLE” P.19) By the end of the 1980s and beginning of the 1990s, the status of the world socialist movement was very severe. At that time, socialism all across the world was in great trouble; it was frustrated in the Soviet Union and other East European countries to surprise the whole world. Therefore, many people who were aspiring for socialism lost confidence, and the imperialists loudly clamoured about the "end" of socialism as if it was their time. Such a situation urgently demanded that a lesson should be drawn from the prevailing situation and the socialist cause be advanced on the new track. The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il, who looked deep into the requirement of the era, accomplished an immortal exploit by vigorously conducting external activities to give confidence to the world revolutionary people. One of the most important in his exploits is, first of all, his vigorous ideal and theoretical activities to illuminate the way for the socialist movement. The great General clarified that socialism is a society based on the revolutionary idea of the working class and its development is guaranteed by the scientific, revolutionary and realistic character of its fundamental ideology. He elucidated that the revolutionary ideas and theories of the working class should be further developed and completed as fitted to the requirements of time and the developing revolution in order to defend and advance socialism. The great General emphasized that socialism is not something that someone devised but is the one that humanity wants and desires. He also said that progressing to socialism is the law of the development of history: he added that although socialism collapsed in some countries, it survives in the minds of people as a science. He also insisted that although socialism is facing with heartbreaking trouble due to opportunism, it will invariably revive and achieve final success for its scientific character and truthfulness. He revealed the reactionary character of sophism of socialist traitors and imperialists who clamoured that the historical flow had changed its direction and that it was wrong to build socialism at all. Thanks to the great General, the fundamental reason why socialism collapsed in several countries, and the historical lesson of the socialist construction, was revealed. － 11 － The basic reason why socialism collapsed in several countries is in a word that they failed to intensify the driving force and regard its role as the principle matter. It was because they didn't understand that the essence of socialism was centred on popular masses that are the driving force of the history. The historical lesson of socialist construction is that they should have firm faith and right guideline, continuously intensify the driving force of revolution, maintain the socialist principle in any case and strengthen the comradely unity and cooperation based on independence. The great General’s outstanding ideas and theories served as an encouraging banner for revolutionary parties and people around the world in the struggle for socialism. What's also important in his exploits is that he wisely led to work out and adopt a joint program of struggling for socialism. He led party delegations of the world to discuss about working out joint struggling program through bilateral and multilateral contacts and talks. On the occasion of the 80th birthday of President Kim Il Sung, many party leaders and delegations came to Pyongyang. The great General took the advantage of this time to initiate the adoption of Pyongyang Declaration as a joint struggling program for defending and advancing socialism. After that, he gave valuable teaching for several times related to working out the draft and its adoption. He said that it should thoroughly embody the revolutionary principle of Juche and make revolutionaries of all countries to accept, so it shouldn't be strong in content from the outset but should emphasize that socialism is the future of humanity; it has not collapsed at all and will finally succeed. He also clarified every problem in detail from its content to its time of publication including the matter that all revolutionary parties should unite firmly for success because advancing socialist cause is related to the fate of humanity. On April 20 1992, the Pyongyang Declaration "Let Us Defend and Advance the Socialist Cause" was adopted and signed by more than 70 delegates of communist parties, workers' parties and progressive parties, including 48 party leaders. Adoption and publication of Pyongyang Declaration was a historical event that was prepared, planned, initiated to a success by the great General, his wise leadership and careful guidance. Therefore, party leaders, who signed the Declaration, highly appreciated his wise leadership and praised him as the leader of world revolution. A party leader, after signing the Declaration, said, “Comrade Kim Jong Il is an unimaginative splendid leader. In fact, when I was coming to Pyongyang this time, I thought that we should found a new international party centred on the Workers’ Party of Korea in order to put an end to this heartbreaking frustration of socialism. Then the great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il looked deep into this fact and had the Pyongyang Declaration adopted and published so that the crisis of the world socialist movement could be eliminated at once and opened the wide avenue for the new departure. This is a miracle that nobody could ever think of.” A senior member of this party said, “Adoption and publication of the Pyongyang Declaration can only be done by the great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il. When a simple communique is to be － 12 － published in a bilateral conversation, the two parties are apt to have differences in opinions. It is not quite simple to make over 70 parties to sign at the same time on a guideline like Pyongyang Declaration. Seeing that he accomplished such a complicated thing in such a short time, his diplomatic ability is so great. He is not only the great leader who leads the world revolution but also the splendid statesman of political diplomacy. Adoption and publication of Pyongyang Declaration is a great success of his political diplomacy.” Pyongyang Declaration aroused a worldwide sensation. The world revolutionary parties that participated in adopting the Declaration expressed their firm determination to actively participate in the struggle to revive socialism upholding the banner of the Declaration, highly praising this as “new Communist Manifesto”, “a historical instrument that shows the new departure of the international communist movement” and “a guideline that regulated the directions of revolutionary parties.” The Pyongyang Declaration exerts great vitality for its justification and truthfulness. At the time of its adoption the number of signing parties was 70 and in April 2012 it expanded to 289. Publication of Pyongyang Declaration that reflects firm will to defend and advance the socialist cause has a dramatic significance in intensifying the international unity and solidarity of revolutionary parties and in advancing the socialist cause. It clarified that socialism is an ideal of humanity and the society which represents the future of humanity and genuine people’s society. The Pyongyang Declaration “Let Us Defend and Advance the Socialist Cause”, which clarified the truthfulness, justification and essentiality of the final victory, arouses great support and energetic sympathy among progressive parties and revolutionary people even today and served to be an encouraging banner and strong lodestar that provides them with confidence in victory and revolutionary zeal. The great General’s achievements in his external activities to defend and advance the socialist cause will shine brightly over the centuries. － 13 －