To Introduce the International Standards Is a Main Requirement to Increase the Exports Jong Chun Sim Nowadays it is an important requirement for increasing the amount of export of goods to actively introduce the international standards to production. Only when we actively introduce the international standards, can we improve the quality of the export goods and break through the various kinds of technical barriers. And we can introduce the advanced science and technology, thus increase the amount of export goods with less cost. The great leader Comrade Kim Jong II said as follows. “In order to penetrate more foreign markets and get fair prices for our export goods, we need to raise the quality of products decisively.”(“KIM JONG IL SELECTED WORKS” Vol. 14 P. 9) As said above, it is an important requirement for increasing the amount of export of goods to actively introduce the international standards to production. First, it is because we can improve the quality of the export goods by introducing the international standards. It is a main condition for increasing the exports to improve the quality of the goods. Only when the quality is as high as consumer’s demand, can we raise exports. The introduction of international standards causes an improvement of quality of the goods and an increase in export trade followed by that. It is found in the fact that the international standards are the model conditions applied the most advanced science and technology in a certain goods’ production. The international standards are model technical conditions consisted of numbers that stipulate the size, pattern and technical features of the goods. The standards provide the best effectiveness, convenience and safety in the process of production, circulation and consumption of the goods. ISO9000, ISO14000 and ISO22000 stipulated by the ISO are all based on the successes and experiences of the most up-to-date science and technology. The international standards are of the    best quality of the export goods. That’s why a lot of traders fully introduce them such as unified standard of rated current and voltage consumption electric power per unit of electric industrial goods, even the bolt, nut, watch, clothes and the performance of the ultramodern machines. And also the international standards are recognized as the high quality by the consumers because they are actually convenient and safe to use. For instance, ISO22000 holds restrict to emission of radioactive ray and dust and effluence of waste water in order that the raw material of foodstuff, processing method, additives, packing and agricultural chemicals remaining do not take effect to the life of the people. As a result of this the consumers want goods applied the standards more than not. Our country has many export goods producing enterprises that can produce the goods applied the international standards. Our machinery is in the ultramodern state in some index and we use the raw materials that can be applied internationally fashionable green standards and environment managing standards to produce the foodstuff and fabrics. － 70 － The great General laid the groundwork for the CNC machine tools during the Arduous March. It is well equipped with cutting-edge technology and therefore it is developed enough to introduce the international standards. Our cosmetics such as “Pomhyanggi” and “Unhasu” are as high-ranking as the French things regarded as the best in the world. If we continue to preserve our own characteristics and supplement the international safety standards, competently we can be the best. The various foodstuffs such as Kyongok-go, Insam-sul, Insam tonic and Songi mushroom are produced naturally so they can be up to the grade of the green standards. Next, it is because that the international standards can break through the various kinds of technical barriers levied to the import goods. Nowadays the capitalist countries erect various kinds of technical barriers to stop the other countries’ export. So for increasing the exports, we have to break through the various kinds of trade barriers as well as to improve the quality of the goods. We can break through the various technical barriers and increase the exports by introducing the international standards. It is because the majority of technical barriers are based on the international standards. The majority of trade barriers are technical barriers made by using the differences between the standards of the countries or based on the international standards in order to protect the national markets. For example, ISO14000 stipulates the environment protection conditions that must be kept in planning goods, introducing process technique, administrating, using goods and recycling. Here what is problem is that the majority of developed countries tactfully use it as a technical barrier . For this reason we have to actively introduce the international standards to break through the barriers and increase the exports. In order to do this we have to give priority to gathering the international standard information. In this field we have to ensure the correctness, timeliness and utility. The correctness is the life and soul of the standard information. Only the correct information can be used as data for the production purposed on breaking through the technical barrier. And also the standards are constantly changing so the timeliness is important. We have to ensure the promptness to gather, transmit and use the information. The international standard information must be ensured the utility. We don’t need any diffusive and vague information. We must do the information processing and make them terse and clear. If our export goods producing enterprises plan and produce the goods on the basis of environment protection conditions of ISO14000 series, we can break through the various kinds of technical barriers and increase the exports. Next, we can ensure profitability in export trade by introducing the international standards. It is a main purpose for increasing the exports to ensure the profitability. Only when the export traders get more profit with less cost, can they increase the exports. We can ensure profitability in export trade and increase the exports by introducing the international standards. The reason is that the export traders can accept the production techniques of certain exports as － 71 － soon as possible. When we introduce the international standards, we can possess the technical information of a certain product with less effort, time and cost. Of course, of the international standards there are free acceptable ones or not. If not, we can modify the standards in consonance with the realities of our country. By doing it we can increase our competitive power with less investment and effort. The introduction of international standards causes the promotion of export and markup. Generally the standardized goods are high quality so they stimulate the consumers. As a result the export is promoted and the circulation is getting faster, and the cost is getting less followed by that. The standardized goods; the authentication standard can easily enter the market, especially certificated goods from a prestigious international organization have the high credit and favorable price. Generally in international market the non-certificated goods are restricted and sold at a bargain even though they are high-qualified. Due to the introduction of international standard the enterprises can develop the export goods production techniques in a short time. And the price is also more expensive than the non-standardized goods. So the enterprises can get more profit with less cost. Therefore it is an important requirement for profitability to be aware of international standard of a certain product and introduce it on time. In order to ensure profitability in export trade by accepting international standards in consonance with the realities of our country, we have to actively take part in the international standardization activity. The DPRK has already joined the ISO and IEC in the early 1960s. We have to strengthen our influence in the ISO. Right now we take part in the meetings of the ISO and standards examinations and receive its publication. We have to exercise our influence by doing active work with the organization. Here what is the main thing is to strengthen our influence to the working out standard design. Only then, can we reflect our requirement and interest to the standards and ultimately increase the international standards based on our technology. It causes the profitability in export trade. For this we have to gain membership of draft designer and examiner in every subcommittees of We have to introduce the international standards to production as soon as possible and increase the exports dramatically. By doing so, we have to fully accomplish the grand plan of the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un to build a thriving state. the ISO. － 72 －