Turner’s Theory of Frontier for the Beautifying of the American History of Aggression and Its Reactionary Character Kim Jae Sok The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il said as follows.   “We must smash up the vicious and cunning policy of the imperialists who seek to obliterate nations and the reactionary doctrines which try to justify this policy” (“KIM JONG IL SELECTED WORKS” Vol. 14 P.305) The American reactionary rulers and bourgeois historians describe the history of invasion and plunder of the Western area of North America and the massacre of the native Indians following the formation of the United States as the one of “Western Exploitation” of “Westward Advance of the Frontiers.” Calling the aggressive idea that came in the process the frontier spirit, they are cooking up all kinds of ideological and theoretical sophistry. This study is dedicated to the exposure of the sophism of Frederick Jackson Turner (1861-1932), a reactionary American bourgeois historian who led the effort to justify and beautify the aggressive and predatory nature of the “Western Exploitation” and the reactionary character of his theory. In his writing “Significance of Frontier in American History” (1893), Turner justified the American history of a century and a half that is filled with aggression and massacres and talked about the “Western Exploitation” much vaunted by the reactionary American rulers. His writing is absurd in that it, based on the pseudo-scientific socio-historical view that the physiographical environment and condition and the geographic factors determine the social progress and the socio-political system, embellishes the history of aggression and plunder and massacres in the Western area of north America after the formation of the United States, and makes a foolish argument that the US’s progress and the Americans’ acuteness and inquisitiveness came in to existence in the process of constant rush of the frontier and the development of the wild, free land in the West. What is essential in Turner’s pseudo-scientific theory is the one on frontier. *Originally, frontier means a border between countries, or the boundary of the settlement area or the borderline area. In the United States it used to refer to the boundary between the area colonized by the West Europeans and the area inhabited by the native Indians, The frontier came into existence when the Anglo-Saxon colonists intruded the Atlantic coasts pf North America in the early 17th century and declared their colonies there. First of all, the frontier theory is absurd in that it argues that the American development is credited to the physiographical condition. Turner argued that the existence of free land, its successive retreat, and the following westward movement of the American settlements are the factors of the American development. He asserted that the Mississippi basin provided the Americans with the foundation of development and that the colonists exploited the virgin land as there existed a great expanse of wild uninhabited plain and forestry. By this argument Turner meant that the American colonists had settled in the free land that belonged to nobody and developed the wild fields and primitive forests and that this gave birth to the － 128 － American’s original development and political system and aggressive spirit. This was a rude exclusion of the existence of the Indians in North America and a distortion of the American history, a collection of ruthless occupations and plunders. Secondly, the frontier theory is absurd in that it asserts that the American development was the result of ceaseless natural expansion of the frontier. In an attempt to make up natural movement and expansion of the frontier, Turner put up the precondition that “it is unnecessary to give a strict definition to the word of frontier for our aim as it is a word of great flexibility,” and then produced a number of interpretations of the word for the good of the justification of their history of aggression. According to Turner’s interpretation of frontier, the word means “the point of proximity between the civilization and the barbarity,” “the place where the civilization advances to the undeveloped area,” “all the borderline areas including the Indian settlements and exploited land,” and “cradle of individualism that offers opportunity.” *The Indian settlement means the designated Indian protection area, that is, the isolation area for the Indians that was forcibly instituted through law by the American rulers in 1832. The analysis of Turner’s interpretation of the word frontier that is based on vicious racist and aggressive ideas suggests the following points: First, it justifies the frontier as a simple natural boundary. Turner said that the earliest frontier coincided with the Falls Line in the Eastern America, the Appalachia Mountains, the Missouri River, the Desert area on the west longitude 99 degrees, and the Rocky Mountains. *The Falls Line means the rising point of the streams that start in the eastern valleys of the Appalachia Mountains and feed the Atlantic. Second, the interpretation justifies the expansion of the frontier as a process of natural movement. Asserting that the natural movement of the frontier, that is the movement of the frontier line to a new area, is a minor key to the explanation of the development of the Untied States, Turner distorted the historical facts as if the vast physiographical conditions in the West called the colonists to the new area and that the frontier moved farther westwards making it unavoidable to accept a new frontier. For instance, Turner described that in the wilderness of the West the Indians drove wild cattle to blaze the trail, that they were followed by European fur dealers, hunters, farmers of animal husbandry, peasants and workers in order who crossed the Mississippi and Missouri rivers aboard ships adorned with flowers, and that finally the capitalists brought up the rear. Also he said that the discovery of gold deposits in the Western region attracted a sharp increase of migrants to the Pacific coastal areas of California, Oregon and Utah. Turner’s interpretation of the frontier is intended to bury the historical fact that the frontier came into existence in the US just because the West European colonists intruded into the Indians’ land and occupied the area, and make the frontier look like a natural boundary. It is also aimed at using the natural movement of the frontier to cover the massacres against the Indians committed in the process of the westward advance of the frontier according to the expansion policy. In other words, Turner intended to justify the aggressive spirit of the America that is the frontier spirit, as the natural outcome － 129 － of the immigrants’ exploitation of nature in keeping with the physiographical and environmental conditions, instead of the idea of invasion and manslaughter prescribed by the aggression policy. Thus the interpretation is nothing but a theory on “justifiable history of aggression.” Turner’s frontier theory is based on the idea of expansion to be found in “Manifest Destiny” which is delineated in Annexation by John Oschlivin who was a fanatic expansionist in the mid-19th century. *Manifest Destiny is an aggressive expansionist idea that claims that the US was invested by God with the destiny of invading and annexing other nations. In his paper “Annexation”, Oschlivin, an advocate for the aggressive idea of the American rulers, justified the American pursuance of a greater area of land as the “Manifest Destiny” prescribed by God. Embellishing the reckless expansion Anglo-Saxon feet had already trodden the border between Texas, California and Oregon, and that the Anglo-Saxon immigrants, as invincible vanguards, were marching with sickles and rifles in the hand, leaving behind secondary and primary schools, colleges, courts of law, assembly halls and mills. He also advocated it was obvious that the US would approach the interior border between the Atlantic and Pacific lands and finally become a union. As seen above, Turner’s remark of natural expansion of the frontier is not a new view to history but a embellishment of the aggressive history of the US based on the notorious theory on aggression like “Manifest Destiny.” The theory on frontier also claims that the American frontier should keep going overseas expansively even after the frontier comes to an end in the American land. Turner wrote that the natural movement of the frontier is not simply a forward movement but a new progressive movement while annihilating the primitive state in the frontier region on its way of constant march, and that, likewise, the American society’s development is sustainable, without interruption. This is a brigand’s logic that maintains that the aggression against the Asia-Pacific region and Latin America Pursued by the US consistently after its establishment be continued by building on the frontier spirit Which is the integration of the bestial, ferocious and hawkish characters that had been evident in the years of westward expansion. Turner’s theory on the frontier is a pseudo-scientific, reactionary sophism that eulogizes and beautifies the American history of aggression. The reactionary character of the frontier theory lies in following items. First, it lies in covering the aggressive and predatory nature of the US and justifying the history of invasion and manslaughter under the signboard of exploitation of nature. The history of the Western exploitation was the one of invasion, plunder and manslaughter when the native people in the Western region of North America lost their land and the Indians were killed. And the frontier spirit of the Americans that came in the process is the one of invasion that is consistent with the bestial, ferocious and hawkish qualities. Putting forward the frontier theory, Turner referred to the role of the American military in the Western exploitation. He defined that the military’s stationing places served as the centre of activities to help the colonists invade and settle and develop the Indian counties, and that each frontier district － 130 － was what won through the war of massacre against the Indians. This statement is a betrayal of the fact that the Western exploitation by the Americans was in no way natural movement of the frontier or “development of the wild, free land”. It is also proof of his own that the natural movement of the frontier is never the key to the development of the US and that the capitalist development of the US was made at the cost of the blood of the Indians and their deaths. The region west of the Mississippi in North America did not belong to the US even after the formation of the US. It was not a wild, free land, either. Soon after the establishment, the US adopted the expansion to the west as its state policy and wrested the control of the region by the end of the 1840s by means of threats and blackmail and warfare against other European powers and Mexico. It fought 114 total wars and 8 600 combats to get rid of the Indian tribal communities en masse by the end of the 19th century. Meanwhile, it forced 274 treaties upon the Indian communities to abolish their territorial claims and take all their land. In particular, the American rulers assigned the war on Indians to the Department of War in 1778 and formed the Indian Secretariat in the department in 1824 in order to intensify the massacre of the Indians and appropriated hundreds of millions of dollars for the campaign of Indian cleansing. From the initial years of the US to 1871 the lethal policy removed more than 461 000 of the Indian population in the West that numbered as many as 750 000. and 255 936 of them were forcibly taken to the 147”Indian Sanctuaries” which are located in the most barren regions, where they were subjected to the isolation and doomed to liquidation of their tribe. Later the US ruling circle took even the land of the sanctuaries from the Indians. The process of the Americans’ exploitation of the West is consistent with the bestial quality. The US rulers who inherited the barbarous ways of massacres of the Indians continued to enforce the policy of killing the Indians by means of prize. In 1814 the US government issued the decree that US$ 50 would be paid for each Indian head skin across the country and later the decree of paying US$ 50-150 for it, thus making the manslaughter a trade. This encouraged the white colonists who had rushed to the West for exploitation to run amuck with the killing of Indians, chanting the slogans of “The Indians have no other choice but to die” and “The barbarians have to leave.” This cultivated the American colonists’ frontier spirit which is a spirit of aggression, plunder and manslaughter, and it developed into a way of life in the US. Examples are: Chybinkutone and his militia pounced upon an Indian village in Colorado and stabbed to death more than 300 Indians including over 150 women and children by bayonets. A white colonist in Oregon unhesitatingly killed 40 Indian women, got the head skins from them to make a quilt for himself. William Henry Harrison who won an enormous prize for his merit in the war for Indian massacre in 1812 removed the skin of Teqoumse, patriarch of the Algonquin tribe, made razor-polishing tools of the skin and distribute them to other people as souvenirs. Later this “meritorious act” helped him take the presidency of the US. The head of the Indian Secretariat of the State Department that was in charge of the execution of the policy of Indian liquidation since 1870, argued in the 1878 report on account settlement that chariot of civilization of the Anglo-Saxons should not be stuck in their expansive estates either in length or width. As seen above, the frontier theory is not a revolution in the study of the American history that － 131 － adopted new viewpoints in the method of studying history and interpretation of the historical materials, but a sophism that is intended to justify the history of aggression of the “Empire of Evils” filled with seizure of land and stained with the Indian blood. Secondly, the reactionary character of the frontier theory lies in that it was an ideological weapon used to encourage and justify foreign invasion. Putting forward the frontier theory, Turner maintained that the declaration-carried by the 1890 report of the US Taxation Investigation Committee-about the complete disappearance of the frontier in the realm of the United States did not mean the end of the end of the history of the US, claiming that it was a hasty prediction to say that the American expansion had come to an end and that the stamina of the US demanded greater arena. Such a remark advocated the foreign aggression policy of the US imperialists in the time of transition to imperialism. It was an assertion that the frontier spirit should be incorporated in the foreign policy of the US so that the frontier might not be finished in the realm of the US but lead to aggression of other countries. The Manifest Destiny was an aggressive idea that stirred the ambition of the US brigands in North America in the 1840s for conquest of the West and Turner’s claim to expansion of the frontier to the outside world served as a theory championing the monopolistic capitalists’ desire for foreign aggression in the time of transition to imperialism in the closing years of the 19th century. In those years the US put up the aggressive slogans of “The Stars and Stripes follows the dollar” and “Pay attention to where the gun reports are heard if you want to make a successful career,” calling for foreign aggression enthusiastically. In his book “Influence of the Navy on History,” Alfred Mahan, a Navy colonel, wrote, “There are some people who ask us to give up marching beyond the coastal line, but how poor would Britain have become if it had hesitated to march as it was advised?” Then, he noted that the US must proceed with foreign aggression. Harrison Benjamin, US president in 1889-1893, urged seizing Korea, China, Siberia, the Philippines, Samoa and Hawaii. Taking advantage of the current, Priest Josie Astrong wrote a book “Our Country”, in which he admonished that the Anglo-Saxons were selected by God to assume the mission of civilizing the whole world thus they should get the control of the coloured races. What came after these aggressive demands was Turner’s reactionary theory on frontier. It has served as one of the ideological weapons for the US policy of aggression and war in the late 19th century and the 20th century all the time. Both Truman who started the aggression war against Korea and murdered the Korean people mercilessly and Kennedy who pursued the new frontier policy of getting control of the outer space while reaching the tentacle of aggression to all parts of the world under the slogan of “exploitation of the undeveloped land” were enthusiastic advocates of the frontier spirit who maintained fighting wars of aggression was the only way out like the frontier policy. Park Chung Hee who went to the US in 1961 after his seizure of the power by military coup d’etat under the Americans’ support made a foolish remark in his arrival address that he would carry the frontier spirit to the Korean peninsula. As mentioned above, Turner’s theory on frontier served as an ideological weapon of the warmongers by justifying aggression, plunder and manslaughter. － 132 － The US imperialists’ massacres to the Korean people during the Korean War were unprecedented in the world history. They instigated the south Korean puppet clique to commit a massacre in Kwangju in 1980. They have been engaged in reckless moves for war of aggression by conducting ceaseless military buildup and war rehearsals thus making a touch-and-go situation in the Korean peninsula where a nuclear war may break out at any moment. All these acts of the US imperialists are clear signs of their aggressive and murderous qualities aimed at carrying the frontier spirit to Korea. History shows that those who run amuck for aggression, plunder and murder are doomed to ruin without exception. The time has changed and the structure of power is also different from what it was. The US imperialists should be well advised to know that the Songun Korea is totally different from Iraq or Libya. As long as they make desperate attempts to materialize the frontier spirit in other countries again, they are doomed to downfall. The Korean people have turned out in the struggle to build a thriving nation closely united behind the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un under the uplifted banner of Songun. By employing the enormous might of the revolutionary armed forces they have built up while tightening their belt, they will sweep off the US imperialists from the face of the earth once and for all and accomplish their cherished desire of national reunification. － 133 －