Kim Jong Il’s Patriotism Is the Crystallization of Socialist Patriotism Han Un Gyong The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il was a peerless patriot; he loved his country and fellow people more ardently than anybody else did, and he devoted his whole life to achieving the prosperity of the country and the happiness of the people. Thus he performed imperishable exploits that are etched in the history of the country. In the light of its essential content and great vitality, the patriotism he cherished and applied in his practical activities is the most ennobling patriotism, and it can be associated only with his name. Kim Jong Il’s patriotism is the crystallization of socialist patriotism. The respected Comrade Kim Jong Un said as follows. “Kim Jong Il’s patriotism is the crystallization of socialist patriotism.” (“LET US STEP UP THE BUILDING OF A THRIVING COUNTRY BY APPLYING KIM JONG IL’S PATRIOTISM” P. 8) Kim Jong Il’s patriotism is the crystallization of socialist patriotism first because it is the most fervent and noblest love for his socialist country. The sound and beautiful ideological spirits, sentiments and emotions of human beings are featured in innumerably many aspects. In this regard patriotism takes a special position. Without his motherland no one can keep on his genuine living and shape his destiny rightly. There is the destiny of individuals in that of their motherland. Unless the independence of one’s country, that of individuals cannot be ensured. Therefore, the destiny of the country and individuals cannot be separable with each other. Since no one cannot get along truly and develop and shape out his destiny successfully without his or her motherland and nation, he should hold it as something priceless. For all motherland is their lifeblood and the loss of the motherland means their death. Accordingly, love for the motherland should be the sincerest conscience and the warmest and purest. Patriotism shown by General Kim Jong Il is genuine patriotism that holds dear every tree and every blade of grass in the country and requires one to devote one’s heart and soul to looking after them. General Kim Jong Il was a peerless patriot; he loved his country more ardently than anybody else did During the Fatherland Liberation War he was so deeply grieved over the trees enveloped in flames by the US imperialists that he planted two pine trees. The trees are growing in thick verdure, conveying the noble spirit of patriotism of Kim Jong Il. In his days of Kim Il Sung University he took part in the capital’s construction as an ordinary builder, true to the great leader Kim Il Sung’s plan, bearing two-man shoulder pole. When he was doing military camping drill, he wrote poem “Our Country Is the Best”. All these testify to his fervent patriotism. When he was inspecting a far-off paper mill, he estimated the quality of the paper by writing “My Country” on a sheet of a notebook produced by the factory. As his love for his country, his nation and his people was so warm and overpowering, he always kept his socialist country in his － 14 － heart. Whenever he, on his field guidance trip, saw a poorly-wooded mountain, he would be upset and comment that our country had been called a 3 000-ri land of golden tapestry since time immemorial, adding that we should turn it into a land of golden tapestry in the era of the Workers’ Party and hand it down to the coming generations. When he saw that army units had planted many trees on the mountains around their barracks and were tending them well with a patriotic mind, he would speak highly of their patriotism and call theirs units of patriots. And when he saw a village and an army barracks that were well laid out and covered with apricot and persimmon trees, he called them an apricot-tree village and a persimmon-tree company, thus adding national fragrance to their names. Genuine patriotism lies in national defence, they say. The Korean People’s Army Military Hardware Museum which was built at General Kim Jong Il’s personal initiative and thanks to his energetic guidance is a brilliant epitome of his patriotism. The Songun revolutionary leadership of lasting value given by General Kim Jong Il who provided the nation with all latest military equipment powerful enough to deal with any formidable enemy’s aggression in a positive way, is a heart-warming reminder of what a peerless patriot our people had in their leadership. The development of our country into an impregnable fortress is a great heritage of patriotism he left with our nation. As he kept the love for his socialist country of the Juche type more ardently than anybody else, he performed great feats for our Party, State and revolution which nobody else could do. As it is associated with the most ardent and purest affection of his for the socialist country, Kim Jong Il’s patriotism is the crystallization of the socialist patriotism. Another reason why his patriotism is the crystallization of the socialist patriotism is that it is the one of the most enthusiastic devotion to the socialist country and people. Affection without devotion is far from affection. A true patriot is the person who not only values and loves his or her country and people but also carries the loving care into reality with a determination to devote his or her all to the national cause, even ready to lay down his or her life. Anxiety for the country does not mean patriotism and patriotism in word alone, either spoken or written, is meaningless. Patriotism is sincere, whole-hearted devotion to the work for the country’s prosperity and the people’s well-being. Answering the call of the country and nation readily in a self-sacrificing spirit without any selfish pursuance and fighting valiantly for the implementation is patriotism. That is why they say true patriotism is accompanied by the noble spirit of self-sacrifice. To answer the call of the country without sparing one’s own life is genuine patriotism. General Kim Jong Il is the paragon of patriotic devotion who dedicated his all to the cause of his country and people. His lofty maxim and belief was that he should work devotedly leading the effort to meet the requirements of his country and people and that was the way to hasten national prosperity and the people’s well-being. Every page of the glorious history of the Korean revolution that made progress along with the revolutionary activities of General Kim Jong Il is evidence to his devotion to his nation. Kim Jong Il’s patriotism means his burning heart of devotion to his country. Throughout his life he safeguarded the security of the country and the safety of the people and dedicated his whole being － 15 － to the effort for national prosperity and the people’s happiness. He initiated a new revolutionary upsurge and continued his super-intensive march for on-the-spot guidance day and night. This was a strong propellant to the effort to achieve national prosperity and the people’s well-being, and it resulted in a lot of miraculous achievements. On one occasion he said that his jeep and train felt like his home and that a short time of sleep was the sweetest and a ball of rice the most delicious. This is a significant, heart-warming remark that could be made by the great patriot and revolutionary alone. At the last moment of his life, too, Comrade Kim Jong Il was traveling by train for on-site guidance despite all his pains. He was a benevolent father of the people who lived a life of ardent devotion to the country. His patriotism is the crystallization of the socialist patriotism that eloquently shows what kind of attitude and stand one should have if one wants to work for the sake of the socialist country and the people, what kind of self-sacrificing spirit one should have in and out of life and what true patriotic devotion is. All our Party members, working people and officials are required to proactively apply Kim Jong Il’s patriotism in their practical activities and thus faithfully support the leadership of our respected Comrade Kim Jong Un. － 16 －