Immortal Exploits Chairman Kim Jong Il Accomplished for the Cause of Global Independence by Songun Politics Hong Yong Chol Today our army and people stand in the van of the struggle of the world people for independence under the uplifted banner of Songun, demonstrating the prestige and power of Kim Il Sung’s nation and Kim Jong Il’s Korea to the full. The great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung said as follows. “Ours is an age of independence. Today many peoples throughout the world are calling for independence and are fighting against all kinds of subordination.” (“KIM IL SUNG WORKS” Vol.30 P. 470) The peoples of the world want independence and many nations are moving along the way of independence. This is the main trend of our age that cannot be checked with any force. Today our country is advancing along the road of socialism without any vacillation despite the vicious moves of the imperialists and other reactionary forces against our Republic and socialism, while dealing a blow to the imperialist aggressive forces in the international arena and giving impetus to the cause of global independence. This is a brilliant fruition of Songun politics administered by the Workers’ Party of Korea. Our Songun politics is geared to oppose the imperialist policy of aggression and war and defend national independence. For its validity and vitality the mode of Songun politics enjoys ever growing sympathy with the broad sections of the international community and the progressive people, in particular, as the days go by. The immortal exploits Chairman Kim Jong Il of the National Defence Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea accomplished for the cause of global independence by Songun politics are, first of all, that he established the ideo-theoretical guideline for the world’s people to adhere to in their struggle for independence. The Chairman said that it is necessary to strengthen the revolutionary army, or the revolutionary gun, and build up the driving force of the revolution and, on the basis, push forward the revolution and construction along the victorious road. The popular masses should develop a strong revolutionary gun and keep a firm grip of it if they want to hew out and advance their destiny and realize the cause of independence and socialism in the face of the acute confrontation with the imperialists and the constant danger of war posed by the imperialists. When the revolutionary gun is weak or the gunpoint wavers, the gun can hardly defend the destiny of the people and socialism—this is a stark lesson left by the history of the world’s socialist movement. Thanks to the great General Kim Jong Il a new, victorious way was opened for the popular masses’ cause of independence and socialism to be promoted successfully by way of strengthening the driving force of the revolution and enhancing their role. The great General elucidated the principle that Songun politics is the most powerful politics and the basic mode of socialist politics. He gave the first ever historic clarification that the socialist politics that is intended to fully meet the desire and interest of the popular masses for independence － 8 － should be guided by the principle of giving importance and precedence to the military affairs. He established Songun politics as the basic mode of socialist politics. With the setback of socialism in the former Soviet Union and East European countries in the early 1990s, the global political structure and the relations of forces underwent a drastic change. Taking advantage of the breakdown of the global socialist system, the imperialist and reactionary forces intensified their offensive against the anti-imperialist independent forces. In particular, the US imperialists, who appeared as the world’s “only superpower”, pursued more vicious policies of aggression and war while resorting to forcible and arbitrary means in the international arena and violating other nations’ sovereignty at will, in an attempt to attain its aim of conquest of the world. General Kim Jong Il was firmly convinced that the destiny of the people and the future of the revolution depend on the gun and that relying on the army alone could make it possible to overcome the difficulties and bring the revolution to victory. From his conviction he administered Songun politics which is the best political mode of our era. Songun politics is the basic mode of socialist politics whereby priority is given to military affairs of all state affairs and the People’s Army is put forward as the hardcore and the main agency to defend the country, revolution and socialism and hasten the overall socialist construction forcefully. The establishment of Songun politics as the basic mode of socialist politics marked a radical change in the history of human politics and the socialist politics. It provided the almighty weapon with which to realize the socialist ideal and principle. The immortal exploits Chairman Kim Jong Il accomplished for the cause of global independence by Songun politics are, secondly, that he defended the global peace and security with success. Above all, he won a decisive victory in the anti-US showdown by shattering the US imperialists’ moves to stifle the DPRK at every step, thus safeguarding the socialist bulwark securely. When our nation suffered the greatest loss in history, the US imperialists took the opportunity as the critical chance to strangle our Republic. Arguing for “nuclear inspection” of our country boisterously in the international arena, they drew their servile force in their scheme to bring open pressure and threat to our Republic. But, surrendering to General Kim Jong Il’s insight and clairvoyance, matchless courage and guts, they signed the DPRK-US Agreed Framework on October 21, 1994 and the US president sent a personal letter of assurance in which he officially called Chairman Kim Jong Il “supreme leader of the DPRK.” As was immediately reported and commented by news agencies, radios and publications around the world, the event meant the American defeat in the DPRK-US showdown. In 1998 the US imperialists began to scrap the agreement and openly worked to start an aggression war against our Republic. To cope with the development, General Kim Jong Il saw that a statement of the spokesman of the General Staff of the Korean People’s Army was released on December 2 that year manifesting the readiness of our army and people to oppose any form of counterrevolutionary challenge with arms. He drew up an unusual strategy to make a brilliant victory of the anti-US showdown. General Kim Jong Il created a favourable environment for the defence of security and peace of mankind and realization of the global independence. He suggested all countries and nations point their anti-imperialist struggle at the US imperialists － 9 － and wage a vigorous anti-US campaign around the world now that the US imperialists were trampling upon the sovereignty of other countries and nations violently by their policy of supremacy and unilateralism while running amuck to put the world under their monopolistic control. He also put forward the task for all the anti-imperialist independent forces to win unity and further boost regional solidarity and bilateral cooperation in order to cope with the US imperialists’ scheme to carry out their crafty policy of division and disintegration and get control of other countries. Meanwhile, he made sure that our delegation attended the UN General Assembly and other international conferences to severely expose and denounce the US imperialists’ supremacist moves around the world and appeal for proactive efforts to build a multipolar world. Noteworthy is that he settled complicated international problems successfully through energetic external activities, thus creating a favourable international environment for the accomplishment of the global independence. With a keen insight into the world’s political trend, moves of certain nations, changing relations of forces and mutual relations between countries, he worked out marvelous relevant diplomatic plans and conducted superb and ingenious external activities. Whenever he received a lot of foreign politicians who were on a visit to our country, he said that it is an irresistible trend of the time for the world to head for multi-polarization. He clarified our Republic’s external policy of independence, peace and friendship, arousing strong sympathy and support for our policy. Thanks to his wise leadership and energetic external activities, the people around the world conducted a dynamic struggle to oppose and reject the US imperialists’ moves of domination, and the US imperialists were further isolated in the international arena. The international environment changed in favour of the anti-imperialist independent forces. The progressive people around the world are expressing infinite admiration and praise for Chairman Kim Jong Il who safeguarded the global peace and security by Songun politics. They used to say: Chairman Kim Jong Il is a great supreme commander who is triumphantly leading the anti-imperialist, anti-US struggle of the present day. He is the only defender of the security of mankind and peace of the world. By Songun politics the DPRK is not only keeping its prestige securely even in the imperialists’ tenacious stifling moves but also contributing to peace and security in northeast Asia and the rest of the world. Spearheading the global politics by employing his admirable political ability in his lifetime, General Kim Jong Il accomplished exploits of lasting value before the time and history. We must work harder to hasten the cause of global independence under the leadership of our respected Marshal Kim Jong Un, holding General Kim Jong Il in high esteem forever. － 10 －