Songun-Based Literature and the Arts in DPRK O Song Chol The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il said as follows. “Art and literature are important activities which are indispensable to a fully human life.” (“ON THE ART OF THE CINEMA” P.3) new era of the Juche revolution. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (Our country) has greeted the great Songun era, a Songun era is a new era of history in which the Korean people advance the revolutionary cause of Juche along the road of victory generation after generation braving all kinds of difficulties and hardships standing in the way of the progress of the revolution by dint of Songun. It is the era in which the original and powerful Songun politics are administered in an all-round way. Songun politics embody the revolutionary theories and principles of the Songun idea, the new ideology of the times. It is a mode of politics to defend the country by building up the Korean People’s Army as the invincibly strong armed forces, solidly build the main agent of the revolution with the KPA as the hardcore and model and push forward the revolution and construction with it as the mainstay and main force of the revolution. Literature and the arts are one of the powerful ideological weapons that lead and propel the great Songun era in our country. They assume a very important position in adding glory to the new era of the Songun revolution. They are a powerful ideological and spiritual weapon that enables service personnel and people in the country who are living and working in the Songun era to firmly believe in and work harder for the victory in the revolutionary cause of Songun without hesitation and vacillation in the face of any adversities by giving them affection and ardour for the struggle and life, rich emotion and enterprising vigor and optimism for the rosy future. New era needs new literature and art. Literature and the arts should advance in keeping with the times and lead and propel the struggle of the masses of people for independence. Only when they go ahead of the progress of the times and lead the efforts of the masses to live an independent life, can they serve as a true textbook of life and play a proper role as an ideological weapon that encourages the people to work harder for the revolution and construction. Politics and literature and the arts have been fully combined in our country to make the latter fulfill its role as a standard-bearer and shock brigade that faithfully supports Songun politics. It is the brilliant fruition of the wise leadership of Chairman Kim Jong Il, the most distinguished statesman of our times and a genius of literature and the arts. He said literature and the arts in the Songun era, the new era of the revolutionary cause of Juche, should be Songun-based literature and art that boundlessly support the revolutionary cause of Songun of our Party and reach the highest level in ideological and artistic value, and directed a great deal of energies to developing them into a powerful ideological and spiritual weapon for enlisting the spiritual strength of all service personnel and people. － 30 － He paid primary attention to the production of lots of masterpieces that help greatly motivate and inspire the servicemen and people to achieve the revolutionary cause of Songun in order to create and develop Songun-based literature and art. He authored works and gave priceless instructions on several occasions on how to produce much more works of literature and the arts required by the times. He noted that given the prevailing situation and revolutionary duty facing our Party, it demands the sector of literature and the arts redouble its efforts to encourage our people further and produce more masterpieces that instill confidence in and optimism for the victorious revolution in them. Masterpieces our Party demands most at present are the works that embody the spirit of red flag that contains the lifetime intention of President Kim Il Sung, the spirit of Arduous March and the revolutionary view on life of our Party that calls for living not for today but for tomorrow, he said. He not only laid down the invaluable guidelines for the production of masterpieces that meet the requirements of the Songun era, but also made time to see each of the works produced and helped the authors finish them as masterpieces. His guidance to make the song “The Leader Will Always Be with Us” as a great work of art is a typical example of the untiring efforts he made for the production of masterpieces of the Songun era.  General Kim Jong Il taught how to produce the song that would perpetuate the memory of the leader on several occasions with a noble intention to make it a monument to the times. To this end, he heard several songs dedicated to the eternal life of the leader on September 2 and 21 and October 26 Juche 83(1994) and on May 28 and June 14 the following year, and personally added correcting touches to them. He also solved problems arising in its interpretation. As a result, the song “The Leader Will Always Be with Us” was completed as a masterpiece of highest ideological and artistic value. His energetic and seasoned guidance is vividly recorded in the annals of the vigorous struggle to produce masterpieces of the times in the field of literature and the arts. Lots of masterpieces of the time were created in the field. They include “Song of General Kim Jong Il”, a hymn to the sun, “We Pledge”, “We Will Defend the Leadership of the Revolution at the Cost of Our Lives”, “Hold High the Red Flag” and other songs, full-length stories “Eternal Life” in the cycle of novels “Immortal History” and “Holding Arms and Sword” in the cycle of novels “Immortal Guidance” and other novels that represent the leaders, an epic “Comrade Kim Il Sung, Our Eternal Leader”, long poem “The General Scales Chol Pass even Today”, and other works of literature, series of multi-part film “The Nation and Destiny”, feature films on different themes such as “Path of Service”, and “Pyongyang Nalpharam”, light comedies “Let’s Go Cheerfully” and “An Echo among the Hills” and a drama “Today Will be Remembered” and others of perfect ideological and artistic value. Chairman Kim Jong Il also ensured that the art institutions conducted vigorous revolutionary and militant artistic activities to fan the flames of struggle in the minds of the service personnel and people as part of his efforts to create and develop Songun-based literature and art. He set it as one of the most important tasks to enhance the role of musical art and channeled great efforts into making musical art institutions fully perform their mission and duties. － 31 － The State Merited Chorus, the National Symphony Orchestra, the Mansudae Art Troupe and other institutions of musical art are the strong musical art organizations of our Party that lead the revolutionary cause of Juche, the revolutionary cause of Songun with musical art activities. He paid particular attention to the activities of the State Merited Chorus so that it could positively encourage our service personnel and people to achieve the revolutionary cause of Songun with the help of its resounding revolutionary military songs. He ensured that the State Merited Chorus developed into a prestigious art troupe in the grim periods of Arduous March and forced march and positively staged performances to greatly inspire all the service personnel and people. He saw that it interpreted masterpieces produced by the art institutions in the society before anyone else and reproduced masterpieces in different genres widely sung among the people, while producing and putting on stage new works that meet the requirements of the Songun era, so that it consolidated its firm position as a state chorus and conducted revolutionary and militant artistic activities vigorously. As a result, the State Merited Chorus held concerts annually on national holidays including those in celebration of war victory day and army day and made continued performance tours of army units including those in the forefront and Jagang, South Hamgyong and other provinces to give performances to the soldiers, workers and farmers, together with those in Pyongyang. Enjoying the songs of the chorus like a salvo of rocket launching systems, our servicemen and people hardened their faith and will to safeguard the leader at the cost of their lives and dynamically pushed ahead the general onward march towards building a thriving country full of confidence and optimism. The great General took every measure to develop the National Symphony Orchestra and other professional musical art institutions in the society in line with the requirements of the Songun era together with the State Merited Chorus so that they could conduct vigorous activities to create works of high ideological and artistic value that are also lively and full of spirit, and guided them to encourage the servicemen and people by staging artistic performances vigorously while giving full play to their characteristics. He also directed efforts to intensifying the artistic propaganda and motivational activities of artistic propaganda squads and mobile artistic motivational groups. He also saw that mass cultural and artistic activities were vigorously conducted in the KPA with companies as the main unit and organized performances of artistic squads of officers’ wives to make sure that the soldiers’ culture prevailed in the whole society. At the same time he instructed that songs of great significance in making the revolutionary and militant songs widely sung among the servicemen and people were published on Rodong Sinmun, the organ of the Central Committee of WPK, and other newspapers and broadcast on radios and TV. Even in Juche 100(2011), the last year of his life, he saw that innovation was brought about in musical art from the beginning of the year to dynamically push the general advance of the people towards building a thriving country. He ordered the newspaper of the WPK to carry the song “Road of Victory” on the front page of its New Year’s Day issue to make the song reverberate the whole country in which people set out on － 32 － the road of advance in the new year. And he saw over 20 performances including several concerts, those of national and local art troupes and artistic squad members, and that of prize-winning companies in the 35th servicemen’s art festival of KPA. Directing their artistic activities, he encouraged them to work harder to implant the songs of faith in the minds of servicepersons and people. He also wisely guided the work to make our literature and art fulfil their mission and role as a powerful ideological and spiritual weapon to fully enlist the spiritual strength of the servicemen and people by taking steps to widely put on stage and disseminate feature films, dramas, pieces of fine art and other works of literature and the arts and those of musical art as well among the servicemen and people. In particular, he saw that the National Theatrical Troupe made a performance tour of provinces with light comedy “An Echo among the Hills”, which embodies the idea of continued innovation and continued advance at the end of Juche 99(2010) and drama “Today Will Be Remembered” was created as a masterpiece of the Songun era in July 100(2011) and widely disseminated. As literature and the arts were put forward as a powerful means of politics and their function and role were enhanced remarkably in our country under the wise leadership of Chairman Kim Jong Il, they were able to fully perform their mission and role as a powerful ideological weapon that encourages our service personnel and people, who are out in the great struggle to build a thriving country, to give full play to their spiritual strength to the maximum. Our literature and art are contributing greatly to realizing the Party’s Songun leadership and Songun politics. Songun-based literature and art help all the service personnel and people keep in mind the plan and intention of the General, correctly understand the Juche-based Songun idea, essence and content of Songun politics, its validity and truthfulness and make them their steadfast faith through emotional experience of the Songun era. They are also making a great contribution to strengthening the main agent of the Songun revolution in every way by consolidating the single-hearted unity of all the servicepersons and people based on the spirit of defending the leader at the cost of their lives. At the same time they are encouraging our KPA service personnel and people, who are living and working in the era of Songun, to firmly believe in and working hard for the victory in the revolutionary cause of Songun without the slightest hesitation and wavering in the face of unprecedented trials and ordeals in history by giving them affection and enthusiasm for the struggle and life, rich emotion, enterprising vigor and optimism for future. They also help make the revolutionary ranks fill with revolutionary zeal and stamina, liveliness and dynamism while contributing to the establishment of a sound and revolutionary habit of life in the whole society by eliminating reactionary and degenerate modes and styles of life. Seeing the revolutionary and militant performances of artistic institutions and brisk mass artistic activities, our army and people have keenly realized the demands and aspirations of the Songun era and vividly experienced in reality the reactionary essence and dangerousness of the vicious anti-DPRK blockade and psychological warfare staged by the enemy. Deeply moved by the attraction and advantages of Songun-based literature and art, they have heartily apprehended how superior and － 33 － precious our ideology and system are and taken an active part in the campaign to completely frustrate the psychological warfare of the imperialists and reactionaries. Literature and the arts made sure that the revolutionary songs, songs of struggle, resounded, militant and lively artistic activities were conducted vigorously everywhere servicemen and people were and the revolutionary soldier spirit was given full play in battle sites of the nationwide campaign to build a thriving country. The great miracles and innovations wrought in the Songun era such as the successful launch of artificial earth satellite and underground nuclear test, updated machine-building industry, completion of Juche vinalon and Juche fertilizer production systems--the great prides of our people—are unthinkable apart from the role of literature and the arts. The idea and theory about putting forward literature and the arts as a powerful means of politics and steadily enhancing their role were developed and translated into revolutionary practice by Chairman Kim Jong Il for the first time. He clarified for the first time in history the profound ideology and theory that songs reflect the Party’s policy and they serve as a powerful weapon to arouse the people to the struggle on the basis of the song philosophy that the revolution is victorious where the sound of music is high, and organized and led the struggle to put them into reality, pioneering a new path of the development of human politics and setting an excellent example to be followed by the progressive politicians of the world. Our Party, army and people will add eternal brilliance to the undying exploits Chairman Kim Jong Il had performed in the building and creation of Songun-based literature and art in order to accomplish the revolutionary cause of Juche, the revolutionary cause of Songun to the last singing the song of Songun revolution loudly. － 34 －