Fundamental Guarantee to Discharge Mission and Obligation as Descendants of President Kim Il Sung and Soldiers and Disciples of Chairman Kim Jong Il Choe Myong Bok At present, the Korean army and people are dynamically waging a general offensive to build a thriving socialist country on this land without fail as desired by President Kim Il Sung and Chairman Kim Jong Il, eternal sun of Juche, under the leadership of supreme leader Comrade Kim Jong Un. The important thing in further pushing forward with the ongoing grand general offensive is to make all the Party members, officers and soldiers of the Korean People’s Army and people keep in their mind that to invariably advance along the road of Songun is the fundamental guarantee to discharge the mission and obligation as descendants of the President and soldiers and disciples of the Chairman, and faithfully support the Songun revolutionary leadership of the supreme leader. The respected Comrade Kim Jong Un said as follows. “Times may change and we may encounter ordeals, but we must unswervingly advance along the road of independence, the road of Songun and the road of socialism, which Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il followed throughout their lives, and thus fulfil the mission and duty as befits the descendants of Kim Il Sung and soldiers and devoted followers of Kim Jong Il.”  (“THE GREAT KIM IL SUNG IS THE ETERNAL LEADER OF OUR PARTY AND OUR PEOPLE” P.20) Invariably advancing along the road of Songun is the fundamental guarantee to fulfil the mission and obligation as the descendants of President Kim Il Sung and soldiers and disciples of General Kim Jong Il. It is because, first of all, it enables to defend and add brilliance to the undying exploits of the great leaders who pioneered the Korean revolution on the might of arms and led it to shining victory. Revolution, in essence, is an organizational struggle to safeguard and realize the independence of the popular masses. demand of the popular masses. To live independently free from all manner of subordination and restrictions is an intrinsic The masses are striving to overturn the old social system and establish a new social system, and remove the legacy of the old society by creating new ideology, technology and culture in order to champion and realize independence. The revolutionary struggle of the popular masses for independence is accompanied by fierce struggle with imperialism. Because imperialism is the main force which tramples the independence of the masses. It is the truth confirmed through history that the independence of the popular masses and the sovereignty and dignity of the country and nation cannot be defended if a strong military strength is not provided as long as imperialism remains still on the earth. In particular, the Korean revolution urgently required to advance along the road of Songun since it is more arduous and complicated than that of any other country. － 17 － It is the Korean revolution in which the Korean nation defeated the Japanese robbers armed to the teeth in the backward colonial semi-feudal society, carried out the historic task of national liberation, fought a fierce war with the US imperialists, the chieftain of the world imperialists, and waged struggle for socialist construction and national reunification under the situation in which the country is divided owing to outside forces. Under these special circumstances, the Korean revolution was an unexplored revolution which could not but pioneer and advance the revolution by dint of arms. The President who had inherited two pistols from his father as revolutionary legacy in his teens embarked on the road of armed struggle with an unshakeable faith and will that there was no other way except to destroy the Japanese imperialist aggressors with only arms in order to achieve the independence of Korea. When the Korean people were making a difficult national liberation revolution to win back national sovereignty, most of the nationalist personages clamoured for “home rule movement” or “cultivation of actual ability”, planned to achieve the country’s independence in a peaceful way without thinking to fight against the Japanese imperialists with armed resistance, and meanly begged for the independence of Korea to the powers of Europe and the US, steeped in illusions about them. On the other hand, the would-be Marxists who had engaged in the communist movement visited the Comintern and were hell-bent on hegemony control and factional strife as they talked loudly about the so-called world revolution without having a thought to save the destiny of the nation suffering distress. With an indomitable faith and will that Korea’s independence can be achieved only the Korean nationals hold weapons in their hands and fight a life-and-death battle against the Japanese imperialist aggressors with their own efforts, the President waged a 20-odd-year bloody anti-Japanese revolutionary struggle, finally defeating the Japanese imperialists and achieving the historic cause of national liberation. Indeed, the victory of anti-Japanese revolution was a brilliant victory of his idea of giving importance to arms and military affairs and a landmark event which paved the broad avenue the Korean revolution could advance staunchly along the road of Songun. President Kim Il Sung smashed the US imperialists which boasted of being the “strongest” in the world in the fierce Fatherland Liberation War by relying on the invincible revolutionary armed forces and brought about the beginning of decline for them, thoroughly carried on the socialist revolution and construction on the principle of Songun and thus built on this land a powerful socialist state which is independent, self-supporting and self-defensive and envied by the world. In the period when the Korean revolution was experiencing the severest trials General Kim Jong Il invariably led the Korean socialism along the road of Songun in the van of the revolution. The 1990s were, indeed, the severest test period for the Korean revolution. Socialism collapsed in several countries, Koreans suffered a greatest loss of the nation for the first time in 5 000-year history, the imperialist allied forces attacked the country all at a time in a bid to bring down the Korean socialism by taking advantage of the difficulties and serious economic difficulties caused by natural disasters continued for years. So, the destiny of the country and people was at the crossroads of life and death. － 18 － Under the grave situation prevailed in the country, the US and other imperialist reactionaries described a collapse of socialism in the DPRK as a matter of time, making public of its timetable respectively. The Chairman who does not turn a hair before manifold trials and difficulties and formidable enemy led the Korean army and people along the road of Songun, which had been taken by the President for his whole life, without the slightest vacillation. He administered Songun politics in an all-round way to fully frustrate the imperialists’ moves to stifle the DPRK and socialism, setting a practical example for the world’s progressives aspiring after independence how to protect the sovereignty and dignity of country and nation. Thanks to the long Songun journey the Chairman made with stubborn independent faith and grit that the dignity and sovereignty of country and nation cannot be bartered with some penny and food, the grave economic difficulties which threatened the Korean socialism were overcome, the Arduous March and forced march wound up victoriously and the Korean people became to finally step out on the building of a thriving country, the centuries-old desire of the Koreans. If the Korean revolution had failed to have General Kim Jong Il, a great man with few parallels in history and Songun brilliant commander, in the grim period when the Korean revolution was at the crossroads of life and death, the destiny of the country and people would have ended and the Korean nation would be doomed to a miserable destiny once again as the colonial slave of imperialism. The Chairman suffered all troubles throughout his life to be met by a revolutionary, human being and leader without standing back a step on the road of Songun to protect the destiny of the country and people entrusted by the President, laying an eternal foundation for the building of a prosperous country which is thriving and dignified thanks to Songun. The whole life of the great leaders was, indeed, the life of uncommonly great men who dedicated their all to Songun to protect and add lustre to the destiny of the country and nation. That is why, to invariably advance along the road of Songun is an important guarantee to defend and shine forever the immortal exploits of the great leaders who pioneered the Korean revolution with arms and led it to a shining victory. It is because, next, it is an important guarantee for achieving final victory in the revolutionary cause of Juche. The revolutionary cause of Juche is the most sacred and gigantic cause to translate the century-old ideals the humankind has long desired into reality by satisfactorily realizing the independence of the popular masses. The cause which has taken along the road of glorious victory thanks to the wise leadership of the great leaders has now entered a new high stage of the final victory under the outstanding leadership of supreme leader Comrade Kim Jong Un. One of the fundamental secrets for the realization of final victory in the revolutionary cause of Juche under the leadership of the supreme leader is to invariably go along the road of Songun covered by the great leaders throughout their lives. It is the unshakable faith and will of the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un to invariably advance the Korean revolution the President and the Chairman had pioneered and led to a shining victory with － 19 － arms only along the road of Songun without an inch of deflection and concession. His declaration “Towards the final victory!” made in the parade, which proudly reviewed the 100-year history of the Kim Il Sung’s nation, to mark the 100th birth anniversary of President Kim Il Sung was a great declaration announced to the world the iron faith and will, infinite courage and grit of the brilliant Songun commander to complete the revolutionary cause of Juche which has been pioneered and won by dint of arms to the last holding fast to the banner of Songun. Though it is the same nation and its geopolitical position did not change, the distress-torn history of the Korean nationals, who were compelled to suffer misfortune and disgrace in the past due to submission and national ruin, ended forever as they were led by the peerlessly great persons of Mt. Paektu. It is the unshakeable conviction and will of the supreme leader that the Kim Il Sung’s nation and Kim Jong Il’s Korea will be honoured as a thriving socialist country of Juche, which are revered by the world, in the eyes of the world in the coming future under the blessings of the great leaders who are enjoying immortality as the sun. A few years have passed since the great loss of the nation. Seeing the supreme leader who is vigorously advancing the revolutionary cause of Juche along the road of Songun by firmly grasping the rudder of independence in the whirlpool of ever-changing history, the Korean and world’s progressive peoples are convincing the rosy future of Juche Korea holding another peerlessly great man and the victory of cause of global independence and the imperialist reactionaries are in great unrest and panic. Following the faith and will, courage and grit of the supreme leader that there can be no deviation on the road of Songun, the Korean army and people are making revolution and construction strictly as required by Songun while regarding it as their lifeblood and fully displaying the indomitable spiritual strength in the struggle for achieving the final victory of the revolutionary cause of Songun. The continued inspection of frontline units of the Korean People’s Army including Panmunjom, the hottest spots in the West Sea and the Seoul Ryu Kyong Su Guards 105th Tank Division is the manifestation of rockfirm faith and will of the supreme leader who is going to complete to the last the revolutionary cause of Juche started on Mt. Paektu, following the road of Songun taken by the great Generalissimos for their whole life, with Songun. That is why the Songun-based revolutionary leadership of Comrade Kim Jong Un gives a terrible unrest and horror to the enemy and instills in the Korean people and the world’s progressives great confidence and courage in final victory and the firm belief that the day of final victory of the revolutionary cause of Juche is not far away. It is the unanimous opinion of the world’s progressives that the DPRK will shine as the most developed civilized nation, the greatest and powerful country in the near future and imperialism, the enemy of the cause of global independence, will surely come to an end as the DPRK is led by the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un. The respected Comrade Kim Jong Un is the shining sun of Songun Korea who is making a final accomplishment of the revolutionary cause of Juche by steadily leading the Korean revolution along the road of Songun traversed by the great leader for their whole life. － 20 － After all, to invariably go along the road of Songun is the most important guarantee to achieve the final victory of the revolutionary cause of Juche. Keeping in mind that it is the fundamental guarantee to perform the mission and obligation as the descendants of President Kim Il Sung and soldiers and disciples of Chairman Kim Jong Il, we should remain faithful to Songun politics of the respected Comrade Kim Jong Un. － 21 －