Undying Exploits that the Great Leader Comrade Kim Il Sung Performed for Providing Favorable International Environment to National Reunification Mun Yong Ho The respected Comrade Kim Jong Un said as follows.  “Having set national reunification as the supreme patriotic cause of the nation, Kim Il Sung devoted his all to strengthening and developing the movement for national reunification, and passed down brilliant exploits for realizing this long- cherished desire of the nation.” (“THE GREAT KIM IL SUNG IS THE ETERNAL LEADER OF OUR PARTY AND OUR PEOPLE” P. 15) Strengthening international solidarity with the Korean reunification movement is a matter of great significance in isolating and weakening the US and other partitionist forces that are hell- bent on perpetuating national division while standing in the way of reunification of our country in every way, increasing the ranks of supporters and sympathizers of the movement and creating a favorable international environment to the country’s reunification. President Kim Il Sung conducted energetic activities to strengthen international solidarity with the Korean reunification movement for all his revolutionary life. Thanks to his energetic external activities, the validity of our Party’s line of national reunification was widely known to the political and public circles and media in many countries of the world, international concern for the Korean reunification issue raised and support and solidarity of the world’s progressives with the Korean reunification movement enhanced. One of the great exploits he performed for creating favorable international environment to national reunification is that he ensured international public opinion was aroused in favour of our national reunification issue through the UN and voices of support and approval were raised among them. The United Nations is the biggest international governmental organization in the world, which was formed in October 1945 to maintain peace and security of humankind. But it has been used as an instrument for backing up the American foreign policy since its inception, contrary to its original purposes and mission. In actuality, a series of Korean issues have so far been mishandled under the signboard of the UN, leaving permanent scars in the minds of our people. The President took protean yet positive steps to make the UN no longer play with the destiny of the Korean nation while building up public opinion to demand it take fair and aboveboard measures as dictated by its Charter. In particular, he ensured that our country conducted diplomatic activities for reunification on the UN stage from the 1970s. In the historic speech “Let Us Achieve National Reunification and World Peace through Struggle” he made in October Juche 62(1973) he clarified our country’s attitude to the UN and the principled stand of our Party and the DPRK government on the discussion of Korean issues on the UN － 3 － stage. Historically, our Party and the DPRK government have respected the UN Charter and never violated it. Our government objected to and declared invalid the past decision of the UN on the discussion of Korea issues because it was made contrary to the spirit of the UN Charter and totally ran counter to the opinion and desire of the Korean people. He pointed to the fundamental problems to be solved in the discussion of Korean issues through the UN in the future and indicated the ways to frustrate the partitionists’ moves to make “two Koreas” and create an international environment favorable to achieving the cause of independent and peaceful reunification of the country. As they were based on a scientific analysis of the historical process of the discussion of Korean issues in the UN and the changed balance of power, they were proactive measures to put an end to the maneuvers of the US imperialists which had used the UN as an instrument for carrying out their aggressive policy, settle the Korean issue impartially, and at the same time create favorable conditions and environmental to national reunification through the UN. The President’s positive measures and wise leadership resulted in the eye- opening event that the Korean issues were discussed at the UN with the resident representative of the DPRK in attendance. The First Committee of the 28th UN General Assembly Session that opened in September 1973 expressed the hope of accelerating the independent and peaceful reunification thanks to the positive activities of our delegation and vigorous support from representatives of many countries. It also decided to reject the bill on simultaneous entry of “two Koreas” into UN and disband the UN committee for unification and reconstruction in south Korea immediately, which was approved by a unanimous vote at the plenary meeting of the UNGA. With this meeting unprecedented in the history of UNGA as a momentum, the world public showed increasing concern for the Korean reunification and raised voices of support and solidarity with it. And the joint resolution of 43 nations reflecting the stand of the DPRK government was voted by an overwhelming majority in the First Committee and plenary meeting of the 30th UNGA session in 1975, despite vicious obstructive moves of the US and its followers. The adoption of this joint resolution was a landmark event that put a stop to the dominationist arbitrariness of the US which had fabricated unreasonable resolutions at its free will every year over the past 30 years by mobilizing its voting machinery and produced a fair resolution on Korean issue. Under the wise leadership of the President the vicious schemes of the US and other partitionist forces to make “two Koreas” came under strong criticism in the international arena and suffered a political and moral defeat in the UN, and a favorable international environment was created to the progress of the national reunification movement of our people. Another great exploit the President performed for providing favorable international environment for the country’s reunification is that he worked hard to expand the ranks of supporters and sympathizers of the national reunification movement of our people. The situation, in which the US and its stooges openly declared the “two Koreas” policy and tried in every way to legalize and make it a fait accompli internationally, urgently required the country to － 4 － expand the ranks of supporters and well- wishers of our revolution in order to guarantee the victory in the cause of national reunification. The President conducted energetic external activities to arouse positive support and approval of the cause of national reunification of our people among the progressive organizations, personages and people in different countries of the world, while building wide- ranging relations and developing friendship and cooperation with them. He met with over 70 000 personages from some 130 countries in the whole period of his revolutionary career. On his foreign tours alone he met many high- ranking politicians including heads of state and government, party leaders and lots of social, academic and media personages. He explained to them the essence of the Korean reunification issue, validity and vitality of the struggle for national reunification and the prospect of a reunified Korea in simple terms, especially the significance of anti-American struggle in achieving the country’s reunification and global independence. He paid great attention to the newly independent countries as well as socialist nations, showing deep concern for strengthening unity with these countries and making them supporters of Korean reunification. At the same time he attached great significance to the role of non- aligned nations in providing favorable international environment for the cause of independent reunification of our people and intensified the work with these countries. Thanks to his proactive external relations, more than 200 solidarity measures of all kinds were taken in support of the peaceful reunification of Korea at international meetings and international organizations including at the third summit meeting of non- aligned nations in Juche 59(1970)alone. Under the circumstances signature- collecting campaigns, solidarity meetings and other activities were widely conducted in various countries and regions to support national reunification of our people. More than 100 delegations participating in the fourth summit meeting of non- aligned countries, including heads of state and government of over 80 countries in the world and delegates, adopted a resolution on the US troop pullout from south Korea and dismantlement of the UN committee for unification and reconstruction of south Korea. In the latter half of the 1970s committees for solidarity with the Korean people, committees to support Korean reunification and many other solidarity organizations were formed and active in several countries in Asia, Africa and Latin- America. Amidst the growing worldwide movement to support the cause of national reunification of our people, the world conference to support independence and peaceful reunification of Korea was held in Brussels, Belgium in February 1977, followed by the second world conference in Tokyo, Japan in November the following year. The international signature- collecting campaign in support of the cause of national reunification of the Korean people, which was held between April and December 1979, drew over 1.08 billion people from 128 countries and 31 international and regional organizations across the world. President Kim Il Sung put forward the proposal for founding a Democratic Federal Republic of － 5 － Koryo, a new national reunification initiative, at the Sixth Congress of the Workers’ Party of Korea and indicated the ways of translating it into reality in the early 1980s. At that time, too, governments, political parties, social organizations and progressive peoples in different countries of the world warmly supported and welcomed the DFRK proposal and voiced full support to and solidarity with the cause of Korea’s reunification, publishing statements, launching international signature- collecting campaigns and holding solidarity meetings. The third world conference held in Algeria in March 1981 brought together 118 delegations and delegates including party and government delegations from 80 countries. They expressed full support to the proposal for founding a DFRK and unanimously adopted an appeal and press release that called for further intensifying international solidarity movement to put it into practice. All these phenomenal achievements made in the world political arena centering round the Korean reunification issue were credited to painstaking effort of the President who had conducted untiring external activities with a noble spirit of patriotism. Proactive holding of negotiations with the US, the mastermind behind the division of Korea, is also a great exploit the President performed for providing a favorable international environment for national reunification. The US is directly responsible for the Korean issue. It is none other than the US that occupied south Korea and split the country. It is also a signatory to the Korean Armistice Agreement. It is the principle culprit that seized the control of the south Korean army and strain the situation on the Korean peninsula. It is not only wrecker of peace on the peninsula, but the ringleader that caused unfavorable environment for Korea’s reunification in the international arena. Therefore, it was needed to draw the US to the negotiating table in order to fundamentally resolve the Korean issue. Recognizing the need to hold negotiation with the US administration for providing favorable international environment for the country’s reunification and completely settling the Korean issue, the President put forward and initiative for concluding a peace agreement between the DPRK and the US and led the work to patiently carry it out. The Korean Armistice Agreement was signed in 1953, but as it was only an agreement on ceasefire, it could not guarantee durable peace in our country. In connection with the DPRK-US negotiations, the President ensured that the issue of replacing the armistice agreement with peace agreement was put high on its agenda and our DPRK government made strenuous efforts to realize it. He saw that peace agreement should be concluded between the DPRK and the US, signatories to the Korean Armistice Agreement and actual power holders that can guarantee peace in Korea. So he ensured that the Third Session of the Fifth Supreme People’s Assembly held in March Juche 63(1974) sent a letter calling for concluding a peace agreement to the US Congress. In the 1980s he also saw that in order to remove the danger of a new war and peacefully settle the Korean peninsula issue it was an urgent issue to hold dialogue and negotiation between parties responsible for it, and ordered to offer authority- to- authority talks to the US again. In particular, he took measures to propose holding tripartite talks involving our country, the US － 6 － and south Korea in January Juche 73(1984). As soon as it was published, the initiative won positive support and welcome from many peace-loving countries and peoples across the world as it conformed to the aspirations of peace- loving peoples in Asia and the rest of the world as well as all the compatriots for peace in Korean peninsula and peaceful reunification of the country. With voices of international support to the proposal growing louder, the decision of the Supreme People’s Assemble and an appeal to the parliaments and governments of all countries in the world were adopted in 1984 and the proposal for holding talks between the DPRK and US parliaments was put forward and DPRK-US negotiation urged in 1988. DPRK-US talks finally raised the curtain in 1993 according to the President’s proactive proposal for holding DPRK- US negotiations. It was the noble fruition of the distinguished and refined leadership of the President that voices of support to the DPRK and Korean reunification were raised throughout the world and favorable international environment was created for the reunification of the country. Our army and people will add brilliance generation after generation to the undying exploits of President Kim Il Sung, who set national reunification as his lifelong cause, devoted his all to the sacred cause of the country’s reunification and laid a solid foundation for its achievement. － 7 －